[music]
There should be some broadening out, but
we are not ready to bet against tech.
>> The hyperscalers are going to drive more
and more of the outcomes.
>> I am kind of keen on the impressive 493.
Everybody's focusing on the magnificent
7. The majority of these companies
[music] have very very robust cash flow.
>> Investors have really gotten bowled up
on is a very strong economy in 2026.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now coming
into Wednesday at all-time highs. Memory
stocks powering equity markets to the
first records of 26. The president
claiming Venezuela will send the US
millions of barrels of crude [music] and
the White House refusing to rule out
military action to take Greenland. It's
a fast start to a brand new [music]
year. We have so many intense
geopolitical headlines and they are not
registering in any [music] way in
markets. We're getting an everything
rally. Yes, we're getting the chip
stocks uh making new all-time highs.
Memory stocks in particular absolutely
[music] surging. But on the flip side,
it's everything. You're seeing it also
in small caps. You're seeing the
broadening out. You're also seeing it
even in credit. At the same [music]
time, you have these risks front and
focus that people can't even begin to
quantify. So they're just not the one
place we are seeing some of [music] this
bleed out into financial markets is in
the commodity space. Whether or not it's
metals that are going up or the oil
price which is actually getting a little
bit softer based off what the president
is saying yesterday talking about 30 to
50 million barrels of oil coming into
the United States. That's about two to
three months potentially. You have to
take out chevrons because their oil is
not sanctioned. 2 to 3 months of oil and
the president said it's going to be run
by him. [music] makes you think, okay,
is this a slush fund or is this
potentially going to the strategic
petroleum reserve? There's a lot of
questions [music] we still have
regarding this crude
>> crude this morning 5687. We're down
about 0.5%. Check out the weekhead. New
feature [music] on that. Check out
Friday, not payrolls. Supreme Court
opinions this Friday that gets [music]
your attention going into the weekend,
>> especially because right now uh
prediction markets have a 20 to 30%
chance [music] that the Supreme Court
will rule four tariffs. That means there
is a 70 to 80% chance that they'll rule
against AIPA as being used as [music]
justification for the broad-based
tariffs that President Trump put in
place. Are we underestimating the risk
of what this means for [music] the
fiscal backdrop? Whether this is a
positive, whether this is
disinflationary, or how exactly people
are going to wrap their heads around
this? The president [music] talked about
this yesterday. He was talking about the
fact that what is wrong with the public?
They don't understand what we're doing.
And then he also said, "We have a big
[music] Supreme Court case. I hope they
do what's good for our country." Even if
the Supreme Court though does strike
down AIPA, it's going to take months and
it's going [music] to bleed into the
midterm election season. But this
administration will continue using
tariffs. They'll just other [music] use
other legal avenues.
>> At least for now, the bond market is not
spooked. If you check out fixed income
this morning, two's out to 30s. We got a
rally this morning. Yields are down by
three basis points, tens [music] of 414.
Brammo, right at the long end of the
curve. 30s down four basis points, 482.
>> Yeah, you're getting disinflation or at
least a disinflationary feel over in
Europe. And people expect [music] that
in the United States, aside from some of
the tariff influence, you're going to
see ongoing disinflation. I don't know
about the fiscal. You put AIPA in there.
You talk about, you know, somehow newly
realigning global orders. I mean, you're
right to point out that this is a
notable sort of sanguin feel in bond
markets. Can I explain it? It's just
that the data is coming in better than
good.
>> It could be messy. It's a risk [music]
factor. If you're just joining us this
morning, good morning. Futures lower by
about a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth with stocks close to
record highs. Amy Ger of Morgan Stanley
with Metals on a tear and George
Saravevelis of Deutsche Bank on why the
US dollar could see further weakness
ahead. We begin this out with stocks
pulling back from all-time highs.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth seeing
more room to run. Writing 26 begins with
one-sided bullish sentiment, rich
valuations, optimistic growth forecast.
However, positioning still a double
still not stretched. We could continue
to see a chase higher. Cameron joins us
now for more. Cam, good morning. Good
morning.
>> Let's start with positioning. You look
at it and you say still not stretched.
>> Yeah.
>> What gives you that idea that things
still aren't stretched?
>> Yeah. It positioning was the story of
2025. The fact that we got to the first
percentile of positioning back in the
aftermath of Liberation Day and we never
got to an overweight position for
institutional investors. So despite the
fact that there was resounding
bullishness as far as sentiment, despite
the fact that we saw households get to
max bullish sentiment, institutional
investors are still sitting in this
neutral territory. We think that's why
as you look at 2025, every dip got
bought. Dips were very short and
shallow. And that likely continues in
the first part of 2026 at least simply
because you're not in that stretch
positioning area despite the fact that
there's no bears when it comes to
strategists and there are certain signs
of complacency in different areas. Look
at the VIX, look at positioning in the
VIX, but again you have overall
positioning that still remains just
neutral.
>> What is the credible bare case for you
coming into the new year?
>> I think that earnings estimates are
already quite high. They are baking in
at $310 a share, 200 basis points of
margin expansion, which means that we
are already counting on a big
productivity boom in the numbers today.
If that starts to disappoint or even
just go sideways, that would be
something that would likely cause
markets to have more volatility simply
because you're trading at high
valuations. The reason why you've been
able to trade at high valuations and
continue to see markets press higher is
because earnings estimates and GDP
estimates were both pressing higher. If
that starts to flatten or potentially
turn lower, that's when you'll see
volatility start to come in.
>> That's the reason why some people are
actually using bonds as a hedge because
you could start to see an
underperformance there and then the
ongoing disinflation. What about the
other side? This idea that people are
baking in two to three Fed rate cuts at
the same time as a global reaceleration
in growth. Can you square
[clears throat] that circle? Yeah, it it
is pretty astounding because if you look
at equity market leadership, it's has
been since November sending a very clear
signal about an expectation for global
re acceleration. You look at industrial
commodities, you look at discretionary
versus staples, industrials overall
outperforming, banks outperforming. All
of this shows signs that the market is
optimism about global reaceleration. I
would paint the contrast of the
narratives to the start of last year
when it was all about America first.
Everything in America is wonderful and
look how that played out in the first
half of the year. That certainly didn't
uh drive powerful outperformance. So is
this global reaceleration simply
something that it's a narrative that we
should fade given how dominant it has
been?
>> So what's the answer? Is the answer to
fade this sort of uh broadening out
trade that everyone is confident about?
Once again,
>> not yet. So if you look at typical
seasonality for cyclicals, the best time
to own them is November through April.
Sell in May and go away. actually does
work for cyclicals. And I think the big
test will be is do you start to see the
real data start to confirm this cyclical
optimism? Do you see earnings start to
confirm the cyclical optimism? There's
been this notion that we because PMIs
are at 47 which implies contraction that
we are early cycle or that we have a lot
of pentup demand when it comes to things
like cyclicals and industrials. But note
that industrial earnings are at record
highs. So this has not been in an
environment where you see some kind of
depressed demand. And the other
interesting thing is that industrials
are trading at 24 times earnings. That's
the highest level since the lows back in
the co time when earnings effectively
doubled over the next 2 years. So you're
putting peak on peak in some of these
cyclical trades, but they could still
run just because of seasonality.
>> Are you concerned that there's a lot of
consensus as there was last year? Yeah,
I I think you have to be concerned
because just as everybody agrees on
something, that's usually the the time
that you get the most surprised. I'd use
the dollar as an example. Going into
last year, everybody was str was had
consensus that the dollar was going to
strengthen. It was the America first
trade and it showed up in positioning.
International money market positioning
was max long the dollar that created the
fuel for the unwind in the dollar and
thus the dollar weakness in the first
half of the year. You look at that
today, positioning is actually slightly
negative. So, everybody is saying that
the dollar is going to be weaker, that
there's more room for dollar weakness.
Yes, the technicals don't look great,
but people are already positioned for
it. And so, I think that that's where
the surprises could come in is
everybody's already on one side of the
boat. Do you actually think this year we
will see the continuous weakness of the
dollar?
>> I don't think yet. I think because of
positioning, you're still in an
environment where we likely chop
sideways. The dollar has been
effectively flat for 9 months. So all of
this talk about the, you know, America
having coming under pressure because of
tariffs hasn't resulted in a weaker
dollar because of positioning. So if you
get to an environment where people start
putting putting positioning to be a
little bit more long or you get some
kind of exogenous shock, maybe you get
further dollar weakness, but for now we
don't see that tender there.
>> I'm pleased you've said that. Bring up
the chart again and take a look at it.
Sold out of the gate as we opened 2025
and then since the middle of last year,
May June time, that trade has done
absolutely nothing. think and we'll have
another guest later this hour saying,
"Guess what? We're looking for further
dollar weakness."
>> Everyone right now is is getting behind
this idea that the dollar is still
overvalued, right? That it's not just
about some kind of question about the
US's fiscal status in the world, but
just that had been really overvalued for
about a decade. A real question here
about what the driver is and what's the
offset to it. Is it the euro? Is it the
yen? Is it gold? How much are we looking
at a very new environment when it comes
to commodities?
>> Best year since the 70s, silver, gold,
precious metals. Throw in other metals
too. Copper the last week as well
blasting through 13K. What's the story
that's emerging there developing? What
does it tell you?
>> I think that there's an aspect of fear
and that being the best way to express
your fears about things like fiscal
dominance without having to get exposure
to concerns about um about growth. So,
if you think about the 10-year Treasury
as a potential hedge for growth fears
and fiscal dominance, that's where you
say, "Okay, like let's look at gold as
being the better option for that." And
it's been in a powerful extraordinary
uptrend. I think the bigger question is
why is Bitcoin sat out of that? If that
those are your fears, why haven't you
seen that reflected? And Bitcoin may be
around the margin. There's some
liquidity concerns that's that are being
reflected there. But, you trend
continues to be your friend. uh even
though you know it's certainly had a
powerful run.
>> I guess just to build on that there's a
feeling that Bitcoin you can't use to
build a data center. You can't use
Bitcoin to make beautiful jewelry that
you're going to wear to your Indian
wedding. A real question here going
forward about whether the precious
metals and frankly just industrial
metals are exploding because of this new
investment in the real economy that
still has legs or whether that trade is
done. We have been in an environment
really since the peak of the commodity
bubble back in 2014 where we have been
underinvesting in commodity type of
infrastructure. And so there's been big
bull cases that commodities are going to
rally because these are very long cycle
investments. And just now after all of
these years of underinvestment, you're
starting to see that start to percolate
and show up in prices. So maybe that's
the story and the question we're asking
is this a repeat of 2000 to 2007? That
was the last commodity super cycle we
had. And that ushered in a time where
you had growth significantly
underperforming, value outperforming,
international over US, small over large,
massive changes in leadership that
coincided with that industrial metals
and overall commodity super cycle. So a
repeat of that, which is not necessarily
our base case, would certainly usher in
massive leadership change.
>> Cam, you're going to stick with us.
Cameron Dawson there of New Edge Wealth.
Speaking of copper this morning, pulling
back from alltime highs. We're down
about 3/4 of 1% over in London. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning. Let's cross over to
Bloomberg's Yahara Arnand with more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Crude prices are weakening
after President Donald Trump said
Venezuela will send [music] up to 50
million barrels of oil to the US. That's
worth roughly $2.8 billion at the
current market price and represents
about 50 days of Venezuelan oil
production.
>> [music]
>> sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that President Trump could meet with
energy executives at the White House as
soon [music] as tomorrow.
Meanwhile, Russia is sending Navy ships
to escort escort a sanctioned oil tanker
which is being pursued by US forces
across the Atlantic. [music]
Multiple sources reporting the ship,
which is said to be empty, has
historically transported Venezuelan
[music]
oil. President Trump said last month he
was ordering a blockade of sanctioned
oil tankers entering and leaving
Venezuela.
And tensions between the US and
Greenland ramping up again. President
Trump won't rule out the use of military
force to acquire the Arctic Island
[music] as the White House says the
administration is weighing a wide range
of options. Denmark's prime minister
warning that any US attack on Greenland
would spell the end of NATO. [music]
That brief John
>> Yhara, thank you. It's hard to take it
seriously, but you kind of have to take
it seriously.
>> Well, Marco Rubio, [music] according to
the Wall Street Journal, is telling
lawmakers, "We're not trying to invade.
We're trying to buy, and we're [music]
just using this invasion tactic and this
rhetoric to get them to the negotiating
table."
>> It just wasn't on my bingo card to
[music] go try to go after the Denmark
prime minister and capture a land with I
think what 40,000 people who live there.
It was on mine only because if you read
the national security strategy from this
[music] administration, they really care
about rare earths. They care about
shipping and submarine lanes. [music]
They do not want China and Russia having
access to that so close to Europe where
they spend, you know, billions of
dollars [music] to be part of this
collective NATO defense. And Trump has
been talking about this since his first
term.
>> Your bingo cards are very different.
Rammo's bingo card is just one thing.
It's like fiscal concerns.
>> 100% yields rising.
>> We should actually merge our bingo
[laughter] cards. We would be
unstoppable.
>> Up next on a program, let's talk about
crude drill. [music] Baby drill.
>> I'm also meeting with oil companies.
Let's go. You know, you know what that's
about. We got a lot of oil to drill,
which is going to bring down oil prices
even further.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Jonathan Tamari in just a [music]
moment. and from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
Decent start to the new year. 3-day
winning streak on the S&P 500. In the
green every single day so far in 2026.
This morning pulling back by about a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ,
[music] we're down by 0.3. Slight slight
move lower on the Russell. Small [music]
caps down by 0.06%.
And a surv this morning. Drill baby
drill.
>> It was an amazing military feat that
took place. It was so complex. 152
airplanes. Many, many. Talk about boots
on the ground. We have the most
powerful, most lethal, most
sophisticated, and most
fearsome. It's a fearsome military on
planet Earth. I'm also meeting with oil
companies. Let's go. How you know? You
know what that's about. We got a lot of
oil to drill, which is going to bring
down oil prices even further.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying Venezuela
will send the US as much [music] as 50
million barrels of oil worth up to $2.8
billion. Trump is also said to be
demanding the country reduce its ties
with US adversaries. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Jonathan Tamari. He joins us
from Washington. Jonathan, welcome to
the program. Has Venezuela confirmed any
of this? What's your read on what's
about to happen?
We have not received confirmation from
Venezuela. So, this is often the case.
We've seen the president make
announcements that are not necessarily
reciprocated by uh by other countries.
But obviously, in this case, the the US
government has significant power in this
situation. They've said that they're
willing to use coercion to get what they
want. And I think this is a way of the
president trying to show Americans,
listen, this isn't just about removing a
dictator. He's trying the biggest issue
domestically is is cost of living,
prices. We have an election year coming
up. And I think this is probably a way
for the president to try to say to
people, listen, we're going to this is
going to benefit you directly by
lowering prices at the pump potentially.
>> Well, it's helping this morning. We're
down to 56.83. I'm not sure that's
helping the all majors as they think
about increasing capex. Jonathan, can
you help me understand that piece of it?
The president's got a very, very
aggressive timeline. Can he bring
private companies, I stress, private
companies, US oil majors along with him?
I mean, that is a huge question because
this incident itself just shows the
risks of investing in a place like
Venezuela that there's so much
instability. Things can change so fast.
uh we're talking about very long-term
investments to try to rebuild the
infrastructure in the way that he's
talking about. Uh and if prices are
going down, that decreases the
motivation to make those kind of
investments. And there's no telling
what's going to happen in Venezuela
going forward. The president and his
administration have not laid out a lot
of detail yet about what comes next. So
I think he's got a lot of selling to do
when it comes to convincing people to
invest there. uh you know there will be
a new administration at some point and
it's not clear even you know how if this
kind of policy will continue then
>> Jonathan thank you sir for the update
Jonathan Samari of Bloomberg down in
Washington DC are we going to be taking
stakes in Chevron next I'm joking
>> no maybe I shouldn't be [laughter]
you might give Mike worth a heart attack
>> I mean frankly he might have already had
that heart attack because what does it
mean for the US government to backs stop
investments potentially in Venezuela
>> you know the point I'm making we don't
have a state or producer in the United
States of America yet.
>> You know, the White House can come along
and say, "Drill, baby, drill." These
guys are being pretty tight when it
comes to spending. Do they really want
to go into Venezuela at the moment
without a clear understanding of what's
happening with crude below 60?
>> Yeah. And the other point, just to build
on that, Trump said that this is
incredibly high quality oil. This is
sludge, right? And there's a real
feeling right now that in order to
refine this, you need to have special uh
refining capabilities, which you have
here in the United States when the likes
of Valero, which is continuing to rise.
A question though of how quickly you can
really get this going, what it replaces.
Look over at Canada and how much it
really will add to the US oil supply.
>> I made this point yesterday. Donald
Trump is the only person I have ever
heard in my life talk about Venezuelan
crude as high quality. It's high sulfur.
It's low hydrogen. It is definitely not
high quality. But also for a little bit
of context about how we're going to feel
it at the pump, 30 to 50 million barrels
a day is about 2 to three days of US oil
production. That's what we're talking
about. It's not crazy amount given how
big of a producer we are right here in
the continental USA.
>> And because of that, that's why we've
got these prices right now, 5685.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth is
still with us. Cam, sub60 crude. Can you
just frame the importance of that for
this economy, for consumers in America,
and maybe even for this market, too?
>> It's probably been one of the most
important things over the last 3 years,
going from over $100 a barrel in oil
down to sub60. going from $5 a gallon in
gasoline to now $2.80.
It's fallen by 30 cents in the past
month or so alone. That has allowed for
disinflation on headline inflation. It
has acted as effectively a tax cut to
consumers. It's allowed consumers to
feel better. Real wage growth has held
up better because of these falling
energy prices. And so the question is,
we have affordability issues, but it's
not necessarily at the pump and gasoline
prices. With gasoline prices at $2.80 a
gallon, how much lower can they go? How
much incentivize how much in how much
incent you do to oil producers to
continue to increase production at these
levels? These are really important
questions. Yeah. And people were
wondering whether it was valid to see
the energy majors rally in the face of
some of the recent announcements despite
the fact the oil prices were lower. For
two straight days, we saw that rally.
Today, not so much. Losing a little bit
of that as people reassess exactly what
that looks like. How do you assess that
into your market call? Well, I think
that you have to ask the question, are
are there things that the administration
can do to allow oil companies to
experience higher earnings and not
necessarily need higher oil prices?
Meaning, are there certain tax
incentives that could happen to
incentivize production? Because at this
point, you're starting to get near break
even levels that start to look very
unattractive. And don't forget back
about 10 years ago, we had this
renaissance within oil companies where
all of a sudden they started caring
about return on invested capital.
Investors started to look at oil
companies and said, "Why do you take
every dollar that you earn and pump it
back into the ground and create this
environment where returns continue to to
compress?" So, we're still in this
capital discipline type of environment
which doesn't necessarily support more
oil investment at these levels. So, I
know that John was a little bit
tongue-in-cheek when he said the US
doesn't own Chevron and then we all
said, "Well, yet or maybe, you know,
sort of a question of how state
involvement and having a state champion
changes your view as an investor."
>> Well, I mean, it's interesting when you
talk to emerging markets investors and
you talk you ask them how do you deal
with stateowned enterprises and the
response has been, well, wouldn't you
want to be aligned with the state and
the people have that have unending money
printing power? So I think it's a really
good question. I mean look at the end of
the day we think that markets are driven
by earnings. And so if this involvement
allows earnings revisions to finally
turn higher for equity for for these
companies over the last three years
they've been in a constant decline lower
because of oil prices then maybe it
could be a bullish scenario but not
necessarily a bullish scenario for free
market capitalism. My counter to these
EM investors would be with the state
intervenes, it diminishes competition
and we've already seen the United States
intervene last year and Intel and a
number of other companies. Do you expect
with if that continues that these are
still worthwhile worthwhile companies to
buy? Lest we forget that the largest
weights in the US equity market are all
effective monopolies. So there's not a
lot of competition in those businesses
as it stands. They have incredible
pricing power and we think that's
actually one of the things that people
are underappreciating over the last
three years. Everybody but looks at the
at the end of 2022 and say well that was
that was ChatGBT releasing and that has
caused a huge rise in the earnings of
the Mag 7. Yes, in part. But we think
the other part of it has been the fact
that companies effectively looked in the
mirror. They said we have monopolistic
pricing power. We're gonna raise prices
and we can actually cut headcount
because of some of this AI efficiency
driving tools.
>> Cam, thoughtful stuff. It's good to see
you. Thanks for being here. Happy New
Year. Cameron Dawson there of New Edge
Wealth. You joked about it. I'm right
there with you. I hope Mike Worth's not
watching this morning because he might
have a heart attack over at Chevron.
>> Absolutely. And Chevron, Exxon, all
these companies are going to be lining
up. The president is inviting them.
They're going to go to the White House
for this discussion. Some of the smaller
oil producers as well later in the week.
It's very easy for them to go have this
chat with the president of the United
States at the White House. It's gonna be
very difficult for them to want to take
that capex and put it in a place like
Caracus where there's an incredible
amount of political instability.
>> Yeah. We're not talking about Saudi
Aramco, are we? These aren't levers you
can just pull and things happen. They're
accountable to shareholders which is why
they haven't been spending the way they
were many years back.
>> Yeah. And it's the reason why they want
to see the money that they already have
lost in the region. And at the same
time, those 11 ships from Chevron
heading over to get some oil to bring
back to the US. It's clear there is some
cooperation here.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Amy Ger of Morgan Stanley [music]
as copper trades near a fresh record
high. Plus, Danny's going to drop by.
She's got some morning movers for you.
We'll get to Danny [music] on that in
just a moment. from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
[music] The first record high of the
year in the books in yesterday's
session. 3-day winning streak on the S&P
500. Slight pullback so far this
morning. down by around about a tenth of
1% on the [music] S&P. On the NASDAQ
were down by a third. The consumer
discretionary part of the equity market
perking up again in yesterday's session.
Also, the banks going into earnings next
week. [music] JP Morgan just around the
corner. The banks trading at record
highs
>> and it's on the back of a steepening
yield curve and an M&A boom. I mean, you
talk about the biotech sector. Suddenly,
there's a boom in uh deals there. We saw
a boom in deals in the tech sector
[music] at the end of last year. How
much are banks going to capitalize on
this, especially with lighter
regulation?
>> We'll get to some of that in just a
moment. Let's turn to the bond market.
Brao yields down across the curve on 10.
We're down by let's call it three basis
points. 30 is down by four. Tons of
events this week. You can point to
payrolls or the [music] jobs data and
say that's really really important for
the bond market. You could also point to
this opinions from the Supreme Court on
Friday as being potentially
consequential for what happens here in
fixed income. On one hand, you could say
if [music] the Supreme Court were to
overturn tariffs that were implemented
under the AIPA act, you would
essentially get a disinflationary force
because some of the tariff related
inflation would not come to pass. On the
flip side, and this is really what
people are looking at, the fiscal side,
how much does this really add to the uh
fiscal deficit and how can this really
be plugged even with additional measures
by President Trump just because this is
an election year and they are not
[music] going to want to add to costs
for consumers. It's it's a great point
because it's an election year. We
already have the one big beautiful bill.
We're going to get the tax refunds.
[music] The big question mark and I got
a question from this from someone in
Washington actually this morning. What
is the market banking [music] on coming
out fiscally from Washington DC cuz
they're looking at it in a granular way
and they're like, we don't see any
movement in votes. And I was like, well,
the market realizes [music]
it's an election year and this
administration might be very aggressive
on trying to get some more stimulus
through those $2,000 tariff dividend
[music] checks. I'm not saying they're
happening, but there's still talk of
something like that. [music]
>> It speaks to what's been developing in
the metal space for quite a while.
Copper all-time highs earlier in the
week. Massive year for both silver and
gold through 2025. Pulling back from
some of those records this morning.
Gold's down by about 8/10 of [music] 1%.
Silver down by 2.2. But the theme, the
grain has been going in the other
direction.
>> And right now, the theme is that this is
because of people looking for an
alternative to fiat currencies. But this
is also because the real world is
reasserting itself as sort of the
revenge of actual stuff rather than the
financialization and the digitalization
of everything. Suddenly we got to build
things and everyone's realizing that and
investing in the materials that they
need to use.
>> 13km copper. We'll come back to that
[music] in just a moment. As we count
you down to the opening bell about 3
hours away, let's get you some morning
movers with Danny Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. And I got another really big
market theme for the uh year so far of
2026. And that is the huge move in a lot
of these memory chip stocks. You're just
looking at yesterday's session. I don't
know if we have this morning's session
as well, but all of these hitting new
records helped by Jensen Hong saying
that the demand for memory is only going
to increase with the demand for AI. Uh
all these stocks in the pre-market this
morning are down. So, a little bit of a
cooling off for some of this trade, but
you can see just how big the gains were
uh on yesterday's session. Elsewhere
this morning, uh we do have a little bit
of deal news. Lisa hinted at this.
Ventex, this is a Wall Street Journal
report that Eli Lily will be buying this
biio [music] tech company for about $1
billion. They make anti-inflammatory
treatments, a a hot area of healthcare
at this moment. Uh their valuation is
around 500 million. So it is a big
premium that Eli Liy will be paying if
this deal gets announced. Shares are up
just uh under 68%. Finally wrapping
things up with another company that had
a huge day yesterday. Critical Metals uh
[music] surged 26% yesterday. It's up
12.5% in the pre-market after that
Reuters report that the Trump
administration is looking at various
options for acquiring Greenland. This is
a metals company, a mining company, and
their flagship project is a critical
minerals one in Greenland. So [music]
that's why you're seeing the shares move
this morning. John,
>> we just need to open a company and
register it in Greenland.
>> You on board? You ready to go?
>> 100%. I was just thinking we should just
name it, you know, essential medals.
Metals are us. Metalsama and put it in
Greenland.
>> What do the grifters [music] do? They
start us back, right? You know, should
we just
>> I think I think I think so. I think we
could raise
>> What are we doing? Working power.
>> I mean, honestly, please send your
checks [music]
>> on our radar this morning. Not that.
This President Donald Trump announcing
Venezuela will send up to 50 million
barrels of crude to the US worth roughly
$2.8 billion. The oil expected to be
sold at market price with the proceeds
benefiting both countries. Elsewhere,
Secretary of State Marco Rubio
reportedly telling lawmakers, President
Trump is aiming to buy Greenland, not
invade it. According to the Wall Street
Journal, the administration's aggressive
rhetoric is a tactic to pressure Denmark
into a sale. And finally, China
intensifying his trade standoff with
Japan launching an anti-dumping probe
into a critical chipmaking material. The
move following a formal protest from
Japan over China's recent export
controls on items that could have
military uses. You know, to me, the fact
that China is using its rare earth
minerals exports as a potential node of
geopolitical negotiation or coercion
highlights the potential risk that
people didn't even want to talk about
over the past couple of trading
sessions, which is what happens if they
do the same thing with the United
States. The whole question around Taiwan
and how essential it is with respect to
chips and then also China and how
essential it is to rare earth minerals
really highlights how this could be used
as a potential uh negotiating tool and
frankly a big risk out there. And this
has been brewing for months basically
when you had the new Japanese prime
minister come out make some remarks
about Taiwan. You have seen this tit
fortat but it's really important those
rare earths not just for military use
when you're looking at the United States
and Japan but also the auto sector that
is huge for Japan and not having access
to some of those important commodities
is going to be a big problem for their
industrial.
>> Let's talk about some of those
commodities right now. The rally more
broadly taking a breather after lifting
metals to record highs. Amy Gar Morgan
Stanley saying the outlook for metals
remains strong with rate cuts, potential
for more dollar weakness, and investor
demand for real assets. Amy joins us now
for more. Amy, welcome to the program.
Let's just start with the latest leg
higher in the copper rally. What's
behind it?
>> Yeah, look, I think we absolutely came
into 2026 with a very strong backdrop
for metals as a whole and and
particularly for things like copper. So,
as you mentioned, the the rate cutting
cycle, that's a tailwind for
commodities, non-yielding assets. uh
also helpful for many of the end use
sectors that vessels depend on things
like construction, autos. So um those
rate cuts are supportive. We also have
investors looking for real asset
exposure and a lot of that within
commodities seems to be going into the
metal space at the moment. And then for
copper specifically, I would say you've
had this very very tight supply backdrop
through 2025. Much of the many of the
disruptions we had there are spilling
over into 2026. And then also the US is
scooping up every spare ton of copper
available. And that really accelerated
through December. And I think the market
has come back. It's a new year.
Everyone's looking at this data and
waking up to the fact that although we
do have a lot of inventory in the US,
it's it's not really acting as inventory
at the moment. It's sort of locked there
and unlikely to leave.
>> Amy, for a long time when it came to
copper, we just talk about one thing.
Show me Chinese demand and we'll figure
out what's going to happen with copper
prices. Are the characteristics of this
metal changing?
Yeah, look, I think Chinese demand
absolutely is still important and I
think when there's clarity one way or
another on whether the US might
introduce copper tariffs um in 2027,
which is currently a floated
possibility, um then I think the market
will start to focus again on Chinese
demand. But absolutely, I think this is
shifting. You know, historically, China
probably drove almost all of the demand
growth we had over the last 10 years.
And if we look at the next 10 years, the
drivers might still be in China, but
they're things like data centers,
stationary storage batteries, the grid.
So these are are drivers that we know
will keep developing. But it is worth
saying Chinese demand is looking a
little soft. But at the moment, the
market's not really feeling that because
where there might be any excess metal,
it's just making its way over to the US.
We've been focusing a lot on Latin
America recently and how the US is
looking to assert more dominance over
the region. And a lot of this has to do
with the likes of copper and lithium and
nickel and some of these other precious
metals that are in found in abundance in
certain regions. How much are you
analyzing where production is coming
from and how this represents a node of
geopol of geopolitical uh positioning at
a time where these are crucial minerals
for the entire buildout of data centers
and everything you just mentioned.
>> Yeah, look, I think it's it's always
good to be aware of where the key
production centers are. So if there is
any geopolitical risk in a particular
region or um or any other disruptions
for that matter you you know how
important that region is and I think the
world is waking up to the fact that it's
not enough just to have the downstream
processing facilities or have that
import relationship but also to make
sure that you've got access to that
upstream materials as well. So we are
seeing um more investment both from the
US but also from China in upstream
capacity and you can't really change
your own geology. So what you're then
having to do is look at other countries
and and see where there can be
partnerships. So that may be how we we
drive some investment over the next few
years. But the one thing I would say is
these lead times for new minds are still
very very long. And so even if we're
investing today, you know, it's probably
going to be well into the 2030s before
we're we're getting meaningful
production growth. Based on that, I'd
love to pick up on what Cameron Dawson
was just talking about, which the last
time we saw a commodity super cycle was
from 2000 to 2007 and it was really a
massive influence over markets more
broadly. Do you see that taking shape?
Is this the beginning of that or is this
the middle or is this just a head fake?
>> Uh, I think yeah, super cycles is always
difficult to define, but I think um
especially given we're seeing energy
weakness, so we're not seeing it, I
guess, across the the whole commodity
spectrum. But I would say in metals and
absolutely it does feel like the world
is is waking up to the importance of
metals. The fact that you know we
probably have underinvested in many of
the metals since the 201516 downturn. We
never really saw that that investment
recovery coming through. And so that
there just isn't that pipeline of of
supply that we would have maybe have had
historically at these prices. And so
we're now probably getting to prices
where we need to start thinking about
demand destruction levels. Now
commodities are always cyclical and I
think you know as as I mentioned on
copper we are seeing a bit of demand
weakness at these prices. Whether that's
just a temporary pause in purchases or
whether that's true demand destruction I
think that we need to wait a bit longer
to see. Um but I think you know it feels
like at the moment we're certainly in a
very strong strong setup for metals.
>> I mean when it comes to copper
specifically what about the ongoing
threat of import tariffs from the US
administration? Is that something you're
still watching?
>> Yeah absolutely. Um so this is one of
the key drivers for copper for this
year. So uh the the US has has floated
the idea of a 15% import tariff from
2027 on refined copper. This was
something that was considered last year
and ultimately uh put on hold. Um but
what that means in the meantime is that
there is an incentive to send metal to
the US ahead of time and essentially
stockpile it ahead of any potential
tariff. We're due to hear on that around
the middle of the year. Um so at least
for the next six months or so there
there is incentive to keep sending metal
to the US and then if they do ultimately
decide to go ahead with tariffs then I
think that would would continue through
the second half of the year. Probably
the most bearish risk for copper at the
moment would be that the US comes out
around that midyear point and says we
will not do tariffs on copper and we're
kind of taking that off the table as an
option. And then in that case, you do
have a lot of inventory sat in the US
which could suddenly be released. But
that could still be six months away. And
at the moment, if we look at what
they've done in steel and aluminium,
while we do have tariffs, um it would
look probably more likely than not that
we may see some copper tariffs as well.
>> Well, given that potential midyear of
not having those tariffs, is the level
today justified?
>> I would say for now, it it it feels um
feels justified. we have been more
bullish on the first half of the year
than the second half just given that
uncertainty that we have around midy
year. Um it's always tricky to come up
with the exact price level that that
copper should be at. But I would say
given we have this bid from the US and
that is creating a market that feels
like it's in real scarcity at the
moment. It's it's sort of starving the
rest of the world of metal and Luna New
Year in China which would typically be a
bit of a softer spot from demand. That's
still over a month away. Um, so we could
still have this this period of time
where where copper continues to feel
very tight.
>> Amy, thank you. Thanks for jumping on
and making time for us. Amy Gadair of
Morgan Stanley, the latest on metals and
mining copper this morning, pulling back
by around 1%. Let's keep an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's check in with you Hira. How
are you?
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump urging
House Republicans to turn around their
political fortunes ahead of November's
midterm elections. Trump warning if
Democrats retake control of Congress, he
will be impeached for a third time. The
president telling [music] them, quote,
"You got to win the midterms."
Meanwhile, Elon Musk's XAI has completed
a $20 billion funding round with
investors including Nvidia and the Qar
Investment Authority. XAI saying the
financing will [music] accelerate
infrastructure buildout and develop AI
products, including its chatbot, Grock.
And Berkshire Hathaway's new CEO, Greg
Ael, will earn an annual cash salary of
$25 million [music] for eclipsing the
$100,000 that his predecessor, Warren
Buffett, earned [music] for decades in
the role. Buffett seated the CEO role to
Abel at the start of this year. The
billionaire at 95 is still serving as
chairman of the company. That's [music]
our brief. John,
>> not bad. Yhara, thank you. Appreciate
it. Up next, risks to dollar dominance.
something similar to what you saw in Q2
of last year, which is you saw a massive
move lower in the US dollar. We think
that that [music] kind of a trend will
continue this year. The dollar will
likely remain overvalued in the long
term, but unfortunately, I don't think
that prevents the dollar's collapse in
the short term.
>> That conversation up next with George
Saravevelas of Deutsche Bank live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> That driver this morning just a little
bit softer. We're down by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P, [music] down by a quarter on
the NASDAQ 100. On the Russell so far
this morning, the small caps just about
unchanged under [music] surve this
morning, risks to dollar dominance,
something similar to what you saw in Q2
of last year, which is you saw a massive
move lower in the US dollar. We think
that that kind of a trend will continue
this year where people will continue to
question if the dollar is really a safe
haven or not because the list of risk
events in the US is endless. The dollar
will likely remain overvalued in the
long term, but unfortunately I don't
think that prevents the dollar's
collapse in the short term.
>> Collapse is a strong word, isn't it?
We'll get to that in a minute. Okay, the
latest this morning, the green back off
to a strong start to the year as
investors await the next big catalyst
starting with payrolls due on Friday.
George Saravevelas of Deutsche Bank
writing, "We project further dollar
weakness, but at a slower pace than 25."
George joins us now for more. George,
welcome to the program and happy new
year to you, sir. Let's start with the
chart. The chart of DXY the dollar index
sold aggressively as we started 2025 and
flatlined since May June of last year.
It's basically done nothing. So can we
deal with that first? What's behind the
nothing over the last 6 months?
>> Happy new year to you as well John. Uh
so we definitely saw the DXY as you say
stabilize around the summer but
effectively uh the dollar weakness
rotated from some of the developed
currencies to emerging markets. So we
have to remember dollar China started
moving sharply lower from the summer
onwards a lot of emerging market
currencies. So actually if you look at
the trade weighted dollar uh the broad
trade weighted dollar uh it was moving
down pretty much throughout the year and
in fact in December uh I just updated uh
some of my own charts uh the fullear
drop in the dollar uh in 25 was the
second biggest drop on record since free
floating exchange rate started after
Breton Woods. Um, so it was a very big
year for effects. Uh, I would argue it's
going to be very difficult to repeat
that type of move in 26. Uh, though
there's certainly a lot of interesting
stories going on of course in the
background.
>> Well, let's explore some of that a
little bit further, George. So, if
you're anticipating further dollar
weakness, give us the why and then two,
just to build on what you said, how to
play it and what against.
Uh so the why is mostly on the back of
uh cyclical reasons because there is an
underlying story around dollar dominance
but uh if you go back um you see those
properties of the dollar that make it
dominant in payments in reserves um
these take decades to change. Um so the
view is more about the cyclical dynamics
and there's a couple of things that have
happened over the last 12 months. Uh the
first thing is the dollar is no longer
the world's highest yielding currency. U
in developed markets at least because
the Fed's been cutting rates as everyone
else uh has has stopped doing the same.
And empirically the dollar being a high
yielder is a big deal. And when it no
longer is a high yielder and you've got
other currencies now for example in
Australia or in in Norway um taking on
that property that removes a big
tailwind for the dollar. So that's
number one. Uh number two is if you look
at global the global composition of
growth over the last few years the US
was leading the pack and what you've
seen over the last 12 months is global
growth broaden out to other economies as
well. Um Europe is of course doing
fiscal stimulus. Japan is potentially
joining. Um, so overall a solid global
growth outlook but with growth
convergence and the dollar being less of
a high yielder plus a very large
external deficit that's very reliant on
AI inflows. That's pretty much the mix
that I think should allow the dollar to
continue to weaken uh but at a much
slower pace uh than we saw last year.
>> How much barisk is that George? the idea
that the luster around the AI trade or
at least the acceleration in some of the
uh production tempers and you don't get
those AI flows into the United States.
How much would that be a bare case for
the US dollar?
>> So I think the AI story is very
important and I I would point to uh two
uh different dimensions. Uh the first
one is if you look at the funding of the
US current account deficit which
remember despite the tariffs still looks
like uh it's around 4% of GDP
historically very elevated and now that
requires funding it requires inflow and
if you look at the last 12 months equity
inflows um predominantly of course going
to the AI sector have nearly fully
funded the US current account deficit
and that's a record high. So the first
point to make is the US is very reliant
on equity funding um for its current
account deficit and by extension its
fiscal deficit. Um the second point to
make is if you look at um the
concentration in US equities uh of
course there's focus on valuations PE
ratios but what I care more about is
concentration. So um what is the share
of the top five top 10 companies in S&P?
That's at record highs. That's around 40
45% of the S&P market cap is the the 10
largest companies. Now what that means
is you've just got high concentration
risk. If something goes wrong in any one
of those companies, um the stock market
in the US and by extension the dollar is
more vulnerable. So I think about it
less in terms of do we have a big down
year in equities? what is the valuation
argument in AI and just more about
diversification
and uh for the first time in a long
while the rest of the world is just more
diversified so if you want to uh be
exposed to long risk assets you just um
have more diversity if you're exposing
the rest of the world and the US is just
very very concentrated in this AI story
so it's an asymmetric downside risk
>> that's a risk sort of on the horizon a
whatif scenario there's also the
potential risk event Friday we get the
Supreme court ruling potentially on AIPA
and the tariffs uh that President Trump
put on for the bulk of last year. What
does the dollar do if those are
overturned?
So, I'm skeptical you will see a large
market reaction uh for the reason that I
think very very quickly you will see the
administration um replicate those
tariffs uh with effectively country
section 301 country investigations. And
we did get um some indication of how
that would play out uh a few weeks ago
where the administration released a
shortened version of section 301 for one
of the investigations that were taking
place. Uh I think some analysts in the
market are saying that these
investigations could potentially take a
long time, therefore providing a window
where um President Trump could not be
active on tariffs. Uh I I would say
given the experience from this recent
investigation that was released very
quickly you will see a whole range of
short form section 301 investigations
released for all these countries
effectively replicating the tariffs. So
I'm not convinced of a large market
reaction or change in the overall tariff
schedule um 3 months out. But I think
what would happen is the free hand the
administration has on tariffs would
potentially be more restricted. So in
that sense it would again contribute to
this lower volume environment uh and
risk positive environment we're seeing.
>> Hey George, thanks for jumping on with
us. Appreciate the framing. George
Sarave of Deutsche Bank on the FX market
with an interesting response to your
question about the consequences or lack
thereof of Friday's decision if we get
one.
>> He doesn't think that there's going to
be much market reaction at all just
simply because there'll be a cocktail of
additional measures by the Trump
administration to replace these. I just
wonder how that's complicated by the
fact that we're in midterm season and
the fact that that cost of living is
such a significant concern.
>> Well, it's going to create a lot of
headaches for the administration and the
Treasury Secretary spoken about that.
The president yesterday was talking
about that when he was talking to the
Republicans when they were trying to
really gather this support ahead of the
midterm elections. But I think for
financial markets, whether or not AIPA
stays or goes doesn't matter because
there will be tariffs regardless. It'll
just be a 232, a 301. There's a million
other sections they can go through to
get the same result. it's just going to
take a lot longer.
>> We noted this a few times at the end of
last year, just how the bond market
behavior and the attitude to these
tariffs, how it changed, how it viewed
them in April and how it viewed them at
the end of the year as some big revenue
raiser that was positive for bonds, not
negative.
>> Initially, it was thought to be a real
negative. It will scare off uh buyers of
treasuries. Now, it's considered the
backs stop to all of the fiscal
concerns. How much will it wake up to
that risk? Should that happen or will it
just all shrug it off?
>> Then that revenue has been spent five
times already, [music] hasn't it? I
think that we're gonna get more of it
>> and we're gonna get checks. Exactly.
>> 10 different things. Your dough this
morning, 10 year bonus down by three
basis points, 414. Up next on the
program, David Ben of [music] CIO Group,
Henry Tra of Vader Partners, Gagi Chowry
of Black Rockck, Chris M of Ocean First.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance [music] just around the
corner.
[music]
You've got a lot of tailwinds coming in
for growth this year.
>> To assume that it's clear sailing for
weeks on end is probably a faulty
assumption.
>> This is not going to be smooth sailing
for 12 months of the year.
>> We've had plenty of recessions within
the economy. It's just happened on a
rolling basis.
>> It's going to be the jobs data that
matter. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with [music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surve starts [music] right
now. And your scores look like this.
Following a 3-day winning streak on the
S&P 500, a slight pull back. We're down
by a tenth of 1% on [music] the S&P. On
the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.2. Through
the week, we get more and more economic
data. Of course, the big one on Friday,
payrolls. We get some data later this
morning as well. Look out for [music]
ADP at 8:15 Eastern time. Then at 10:00,
Joltson ISM data as well. Then on
Friday, we talked about this a few times
already. It's not just about payrolls
anymore. We're looking out for this
opinions from the Supreme Court if we
get a decision on those tariffs.
>> Yeah. And is it going to be market
moving? We've been talking about how the
bond market at one point was
extraordinarily sensitive to [music] any
news on AIPA and the potential
overturning of that provision just
because that was supposedly plugging a
hole in the deficit. Now there's a real
question. Are people just kind of blind
to it or shruging it off because
ultimately those holes will be filled in
other ways and it's so hard to really
navigate this in any way that people
just seem to ignore anything coming
[music] out of Washington.
>> That's how the market feels. I know the
White House definitely wants the Supreme
Court to maintain AIPA. This is
definitely an for the president for him
this is a good an [music] easy use to be
able to use tariffs really like turning
on and off a light switch. You don't
need to do these sort of investigations.
[music] But coming Friday potentially
we're going to get it. But we also might
not. This is the funny thing with the
Supreme Court. We know there's going to
be an opinion day. Whether or not they
rule on this [music] remains to be seen.
>> Busy start to 2026. Got to some
headlines right now in the media space.
So, let's bring them to you. This from
Warner Brothers. Largely expected
following our reporting in the last
week. The amended Paramount offer
remains quote inadequate, saying that
the Netflix merger [music] is superior
to Paramount's amended offer.
>> Yeah. So now uh there is a question
about what Paramount Sky Dance will come
back with, especially given Larry
Ellison's desire [music] to potentially
back this. Then of course there is a
question about the regulatory overhang.
What can actually get through Washington
[music] DC, especially if some sort of
deal between Warner Brothers Discovery
and Netflix does not include the news
arm of uh of Warner Brothers Discovery.
So a lot of questions still swirling
here. [music] I have a feeling we're
going to keep talking about this. We
are. And if it was to break up though
that deal with Netflix, then Warner
Brothers would have to pay them [music]
$4.7 billion. It's interesting you talk
about the regulatory environment. The
president has come out and basically
said he's going to be a part of this.
[music] But he's met with both sides.
Larry Ellison has been a feature of this
Oval Office since Trump took the
inauguration oath of January of last
year. But we've also seen him at the
same time speak to Netflix about this.
How this can get through regulatory
[music]
is going to be very interesting. But it
remains clear at this moment at least
Warner Brothers wants to stick with
Netflix.
>> Ego I think is at the center of a lot of
this right [music] now. Imagine you are
a billionaire used to get an absolutely
everything you want and Warner Brothers
come out and say there's a lack [music]
of certainty in this offer and the
ability to close it.
>> There is ego wrapped up in this deal. I
feel like you could say that about this
year. I feel like you could say that
about last year. I think that there are
a lot of big egos in the room. This sort
of encapsulates it. A question about is
that a dare? It's not sufficient. We're
worried about the risk, the debt
financing that could be involved. How
much does this go people to get? Look,
this is the reason why you're not seeing
a bigger move right now in markets
because [music] people are saying, "All
right, over to you at two Brutus." I
also agree with Jonathan, though. Part
of this partially is, "No, I need to win
this. This is a battle." The individual
[music] who is then playing off
everyone's egos is David Zazz. He is
literally the man of the moment that is
going to make a ton of money closing
this deal. Warner Brothers this morning
down by about 210 ten of 1%. Netflix
higher by 0.3. Minimal moves widely
expected following some of our reporting
in the last week or so. The broader
equity market doing okay on the S&P
[music] 500 down by not even a tenth of
1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with David Bden of CIO Group as
investors go risk on. Henry of Vader
Partners as President Trump looks to
balance domestic and foreign policy. And
Chris Mer of Ocean First on a potential
new wave of bank M&A with bank stocks at
record highs with earnings just around
the corner. We begin this hour with
stocks hovering near fresh records on
the S&P 500. CIO Group CEO David Balen
joins us now for more. David, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Pleasure to be here.
>> Congratulations on the new seat and we
can talk about what the company's going
to be doing in the not too distant
future. But I want to take the
temperature of this market with you.
What are your thoughts about where we
are, where we have been, and where we
going?
>> Yeah, I mean it it's pretty obvious that
you've got a a you know momentum bond
situation. You've got an earnings growth
situation, earnings broadening
situation. I think there are areas of
the market where you're seeing even more
of that internationally. You know, 70%
of international markets last year
outperformed the US. US investors
virtually unexposed to those markets,
right? Lack of diversification uh in
their portfolio. So, I like the momentum
of the market. I like, you know, where
it's going. But I think there are lots
of areas where people need to go.
Whether it's in pharmaceuticals, whether
it's in energy, whether it's in MLPs,
where there's simply no real action on
the part of investors. It's all about
tech. all about big deals all the time
and I think you know I I I think the
good news is we we believe that will
continue but we also think that it
indicates uh a growing risk in
portfolios.
>> Well, let's go to the international
story. So I'm with you and we've seen
that spread to Asia in a bigger way to
start the year. Is it just a stiffer
flavor of the same story though just
tech but tech elsewhere? Yeah, in in
part that's true, but remember that it's
really an earning story, right? It's
where you're going to see, you know,
lower valuations and higher growth rates
internationally, right? And you can see
that in Japan, you could see that in
India, right? And you can see it even in
pockets of Europe and in Germany, right?
As a result of the changes of
geopolitics. So, you could play all of
those things, but if you're an investor,
you want to own that growth at a price
if you can, and you can't find it at a
cheap price in America anymore at all.
Just to take what you're saying a step
further, are you saying that anyone who
invests completely in the US or more
heavily in the US is exposed to a
concentration risk that is historic and
potentially really problematic?
>> That is the number one thing that we're
talking with clients about today is the
fact that, you know, it's if you if if a
client has multiple advisors, right, and
they're all in investing on the same
thing and they don't rebalance
portfolios. And that is the number one
observation that we've seen in our data
this past year is that everyone is
letting these trades ride. So you have
one of the riskiest stock sectors right
semiconductors large comp right Nvidia
right leading the company leading the
stock market I mean and it is in a
highly volatile marketplace and so we
don't think there's a problem this year
fair enough but the question is if a
person's got you know that type of
concentration risk where should they
move that money and when right and that
is a 2026 move as far as we're concerned
>> so you think it's international is it
international equities is it in the
commodity space I mean where exactly do
you see actual diversification against
something that's really global
>> right so You can actually do that
through dividend shares in Europe in
specific sectors, right? You can do it
in pharmaceuticals here in the US and
internationally. You could do it in tech
in Asia in certain areas, right? In
terms of what is where AI is going to
influence consumer markets and consumer
brands. So there's lots of places where
you get the growth story, but you also
get diversification as to industry.
Everything that we're doing is focused
on where earnings are going in those
places. So it's lower valuations, higher
earnings growth rates, non US. We're now
about 20% non US in terms of our
portfolios which we can do because we're
not limited to where we uh we were when
I was working in a large bank.
>> You also say treat cash as an asset
class.
>> Yes.
>> How much should people be allocating?
>> So two two facts that I don't think
people know. The average family, right,
has more than 9% of their portfolio in
cash and has had it there for basically
5 to 10 years saying they'll be
opportunistic and they never are. The
average cash yield for that family is
2.7%. They could be earning 4% in
treasuries. They could be earning 5%
[snorts] if they have a blended
portfolio. And one of the reasons why
that's true is that they have their cash
in 15 different accounts. None of it's
aggregated and it's not managed. So why
is that the case? It's largely because
there's a little bit everywhere. And so
that's an enormous opportunity. If you
have 9% of your portfolio and you can
make an extra 150 basis points in it,
right, you should be doing that. And
these are the observations that we're
now able to see because that you know
when you look across all of the accounts
that a family has. You can actually just
see how it is that they are really
undermanaging certain assets. And that's
why we call cash as an asset class
because it's a large portion of the
portfolio and it's largely undermanaged.
>> You're laying the foundations for a
broader conversation about what you're
doing now. How much extra insight do you
have now versus what you had previously?
And would you go as far as saying that
this industry is letting some of those
families down? I would actually go far
as to say that I I really didn't think
that a year ago, right? But but it's not
only it's it's a structural issue
because if they can't see the assets
theoretically, they can't comment on
them. But what's really uh interesting
to me is that the industry is charging
an enormous amount in fees for these the
advice that they get. So the average
family is probably paying 1.4% if you
add up the cost of the funds they own
and the cost of their advice, right?
Which in a 15% year is 9% of what they
actually made, right? And yet, right,
they're basically index oriented.
They're getting all of this exposure
without getting diversification and
they're getting, you know, not very good
yields on their cash. So, I would just
say that they're not getting uh the
implementation of the advice that they
should about your following the basic
rules of finance, which is
diversification and meaning it and uh
and that's what I would say. Yes, that's
true.
>> At a time when there is so much focus on
wealth management at big banks, why do
you think this is? Is it just group
think or is it that there are certain
incentives to be invested in certain
areas? I
>> I just simply think that the industry is
is going under such an amount of
consolidation right now. You know, RAA
rollups, uh, you know, you know, banks
basically buying other, you know, wealth
management institutions, consolidation
and asset management. It's a extremely
profitable time for the industry, right?
So, there's no real reason to take a
look at at at the very nature of its fee
structure given all of that, right? If
you think about it, right? Clients can
get I'll give you an example. If you
take an our asset allocation and you
were actually to look at the cost of the
funds that we use, it's 18 basis points
to actually buy all of the ETFs in the
United States that we like with
extraordinary specificity as to what
individual, you know, sectors you want
to get exposure to. If you want to get
exposure to uh ETFs in in MLPS right
now, which we're doing, or in pharma,
right, or in bio, you know,
biotechnology, you can literally buy
those at very inexpensive things. So you
could assemble a portfolio that way or
you can pay for active management at 60
or 70 basis points and not get any
benefit from it. Right. Well, the
industry is largely stuck on the way
that it's done it. It has no incentive
to change.
>> David, just before you go, is there a
wealth bracket in particular that you
think is vulnerable to some of the
issues you just explained?
Uh yes, it's a very wide bracket, but if
a family has, you know, 10 to500 million
and they're using multiple and they're
using multiple advisors, which is a huge
amount of wealth and and extraordinary,
right? But if they've got 10 to500
million, right, and they're using
multiple advisors, the probability that
they're beating the markets or that they
actually have their money adequately and
diversified, invested is extremely low.
>> What happens 500 and up? they they tend
to get more advice by having an
individual inside the family who is
actually coordinating the professional
activities and interesting is they
actually have goals and an IPS that
they're following and and are being
checked on. It's it's when they don't
have that and they're relying on
multiple providers that they end up not
having a sense of direction
>> things I'll never have to worry about.
But a good conversation
>> you actually I that's not the case. We
actually have studied you and you're
going to be fine. I'm going to be right
in that group of people not getting good
advice.
>> I appreciate it. Thank you. I tell you,
it's
>> just I'm not in the 10 to 500 Bremo.
>> No, no, I know. But that spec, we're
going to come up with a spec and then
you'll be right there. You missed the
punch line, you know,
>> company. That's right.
>> If you're in the 0 to 10, you're not
being taken advantage of, Lisa. Okay.
Great video.
>> All right, David. Good to see you,
smart. My pleasure. Thank you so much.
Appreciate it. You bet. [laughter]
>> David Balen, the CIO Group CEO. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Allen with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. Warner Brothers Discovery
saying an amended takeover offer from
Paramount's Guidance is inferior to the
deal it already has with Netflix. The
board of directors writing in a letter
to shareholders Paramount's offer
provides insufficient value and it
[music] doubts the company can close the
deal despite a personal financial
guarantee from billionaire [music] Larry
Ellison. Meanwhile, Universal Music is
partnering with Nvidia to expand the
role of AI in music discovery and
creation. The partnership will focus on
using AI to improve how fans [music]
discover music and engage with artists.
The company's also planned to build on
Nvidia's audio language model, Music
Flamingo.
And in sports, the Baltimore Ravens
firing head coach Jim Harbaugh after 18
seasons with the team. The move follows
a disappointing [music] season for the
Ravens where they failed to make the
playoffs despite Super Bowl aspirations.
Harbaugh was the second longest tenur
head coach in the league, winning his
sole Super [music] Bowl with the team
back in 2012. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. I'm next on the
program, reclaiming [music] the domestic
agenda.
>> Let the money go directly to the people
where they can buy their own healthcare.
If you can do that, you're going to have
this is going to be your issue. You
know, I'm going to meet with the
insurance companies. That conversation
up next with Henred Trees of Vader
Partners live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> We're down by not [music] even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100,
down by 0.2 on a Russell a little bit
softer. Also about an hour from now, we
will have some [music] ADP jobs data for
you in focus at 8:15 Eastern time before
we see the payrolls report this Friday.
The estimate in our survey is 50K.
[music]
The previous number, Lisa, -32.
>> Yeah, you could see a potential
recovery. And this is actually uh the
potential bull [music] case that some
people are looking at not only in ADP
but also as a predecessor to what we
could see on Friday. What if you get a
rebound, right? What does that do in
terms of risk on risk off given the fact
that people have seen the weakness at
the end of last year and said this is
the reason why this Fed can cut rates.
>> Then you've got a better story to tell.
Tax refunds spending picks up a better
economy. We hope we hope that's the
direction of travel. [music]
>> Which is the reason why stocks are
betting on it and bonds are betting that
that's not going to happen. So one of
them has to be right. One of them has to
be wrong and I guess we'll get the
answer.
>> The White House also hoping that's the
direction of travel under Savylvanas
this morning reclaiming the domestic
agenda.
>> Let the money go not to the big fat cats
and the insurance companies that made
1700% over the last short period of
time. Let the money go directly to the
people where they can buy their own
healthcare. If you can do that, you're
going to have this is going to be your
issue. You know, I'm going to meet with
the insurance companies. I said, I'm
going to meet with them. I'm meeting
with them all 14 companies.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump pushing House
Republicans to own the healthc care
issue ahead of the midterms as voters
show they are more concerned with
affordability than foreign affairs.
Jonathan Tamari of Bloomberg government
joins us now from Washington for more.
Jonathan, that's at the top of the
agenda for Americans in this country.
How are they going to speak to that?
What are they going to do in the year
ahead?
>> That's the really big question. And one
of the challenges for Republicans is
that they haven't laid out a clear
affordability agenda. You know, the
president is talking about trying to
lower gas prices. He's made this kind of
targeted pitch on on health care, but
these things are going to be really hard
to make to happen quickly. Uh right now
there are millions of Americans who are
paying higher premiums through the
Affordable Care Act because some
subsidies expired under Republicans
watch this past year. And so it's a
major challenge and and they have a very
narrow majority in the House. So, it's
going to be hard to get any major
legislation passed this year.
>> Jonathan, we talked about the pitch
that's going to come from Republicans.
It's going to be the tax refund and
hopefully the economy picks up going
into the middle of the year. What's the
pitch from the Democrats? What are they
offering up going into midterms?
>> So, they've yet to lay out their own
affirmative agenda, which is a big
challenge for them. It's something
they've really struggled with during the
Trump years. Right now, they're
basically saying Trump promised you that
he was going to lower prices, lower
inflation, and that his focus has been
elsewhere. that his focus has been on
Venezuela, on immigration, on all these
other things and not on um not on
lowering prices the way he promised. As
far as an affirmative democratic agenda,
we're still honestly waiting for that
outside of the healthc care space.
Jonathan Tamari down in Washington.
Jonathan, thank you. Appreciate you
making some time for us this morning to
build on this conversation. Henrietta
Trees of Vader Partners joins us now for
more. Henrietta, happy new year and a
welcome to the program. A warm welcome.
What's at the top of the agenda do you
think for Republicans? What's achievable
in the months ahead?
Well, with a one seat majority, you have
almost nothing that's achievable. And
that's the state of play for Speaker
Johnson right now. So, when President
Trump spoke to the conference yesterday,
he laid out a whole host of things that
Republicans would like to see. But the
bottom line is this is where an
understanding and being, you know, a
legislative wonk is really helpful. You
just don't have the votes. So, talking
about reorganizing health care is not an
option. The best that they could do is
extend the ACA subsidies that expired at
the end of the last year. 24 million
people, some people paying a thousand
dollars more in ACA subsidies. That's
going to be the bulk of it. And the real
news from that event yesterday was
around the hide amendment, which is
related to abortion. We're on the same
old issues we've been focused on for 16
years. So expecting radical change on
the healthcare front is just
unrealistic.
>> Henry, is there appetite within the
Republican conference to expand those
healthcare subsidies?
>> Um, I think there's appetite to extend.
Definitely not to expand. So, they'd
put, you know, u wage requirements on
there, duration requirements on there.
It wouldn't be open-ended. Uh the
duration is anywhere between six months
to three years. There's even a five-year
bill, but expansion is not on the table.
Um and so that's that's sort of the best
that they can hope for going into this.
>> So, does this mean we will not have a
government shutdown at the end of the
month?
>> I don't think we're going to shut it
down. I think Democrats feel like they
proved their point. They got the
narrative in the United States around
the voting demographics to focus on
affordability. And as y'all were just
pointing out, they don't need a
proactive agenda in their view. They
just have to keep the conversation on
affordability and housing in particular.
Um, and so that's where Schumer and
Hakee Jeff are going to focus the
narrative as they go out into the
campaign trail. And you know, obviously
the president is very concerned, as he
has been throughout all of last year,
with maintaining control of the House,
but now even the Senate is slightly at
play for the Democratic conference. And
that issue of affordability is is
paramount, as you were just pointing
out. Well, the president yesterday said
this quote, "I wish you could explain to
me what the hell's going on with the
mind of the public." Henrietta, when it
comes to the president and his pitch to
the American people, when it comes to
affordability, he has gotten gas prices
lower, but grocery prices are higher. He
has stopped the inflow of uh immigration
at the border, something he pitched the
American people. But at the same time,
right now, he's taking a very aggressive
foreign policy posture. Is this
something Americans want to sign up for
when it comes to the midterm elections?
>> Such an exceptional statement to seize
on. The president's commentary shows
that there is, you know, honestly kind
of gaslighting going on within the White
House. And I would start with the
tariffs. The tariffs are widely
understood by the American public.
Everybody watched the news on Liberation
Day. And every small business that's
importing anything, whether it's a
children's toy or a refrigerator, is
focused on what happens next. What
happens at the Supreme Court? Do I need
to pay this harmonized tariff schedule
uh number? What's my tariff rate? Every
single person in the United States is
concerned about tariffs and they do not
like them. This is a rare example where
Trump is at a 60 40 sometimes even 7030
deficit with the American public. He
likes the tariffs. America does not. And
so when he says, you know, what's going
on? It's the tariffs. The foreign policy
thing is actually very consistent with
what we've seen from Americans for
generations now. They just do not care.
4% of Americans think that the drug
trade in Latin America is worth
prioritizing. They just don't care.
Bring the prices down. Nothing else
matters. Henry, what does that mean in
terms of if the Supreme Court does
strike down tariffs under the AIPA act,
whether the president will be willing to
go forward on a cocktail of additional
tariffs and put them on given that they
are so unpopular?
>> There's a disperate view in DC. If you
are a trade policy person, you are
looking at the tariff laws and the code
and say, "What can I do? Can I migrate
to a balance of payments authority and
collect 15% tariffs for the next 150
days?" Sure, you can totally do that.
That is reasonable to physically do. But
think about it from the perspective of
the manufacturing base or any importer
or business or American voter. You now
have to go through liberation day all
over again. You have to figure out what
tariff schedule you're exposed to, what
the rate's going to be, how long it's
going to be there for, whether it will
come back. If they use 338, that's never
been used before in history. We're going
to go through this whole rigmarole where
it goes to the Court of International
Trade, the Court of Appeals, and the
Supreme Court all over again. So, it's
that uncertainty, which was the buzzword
of all of 2025, that will come rushing
back. And my view is the president has
to take that into consideration,
especially now that we're 11 months away
from a midterm election cycle where
Republicans are about to get shellacked
with a D plus4 generic ballot situation.
>> Can we just finish on one thing? Just
take a step back. Why is everyone in
Washington so bad at handling this
issue? We torched the Biden
administration quite rightly when they
were talking about prices. Inflation was
heading towards double digits and they
were like, "There's nothing to see here.
Everything's fine. It's a great
economy." It certainly wasn't for many
people. Unfortunately for the president,
he now owns the issue. He's the
president of the United States and the
Republicans control Congress. They own
the issue, too. Why are we seeing
successive governments perform so poorly
on such a key issue for the American
public?
I
>> I think the inflation memory bank is
really strong. We're still in the
mindset of the post-pandemic era is
that's sort of what the data suggests.
Um, I would point out the idea that you
can't follow the University of Michigan
consumer pricing ind um, consumer
sentiment index anymore. It's because
now all of your views of the economy are
shaped by your politics. So, if you like
Trump, you think the economy is great.
If you don't like Trump, you don't like
the economy. And now we have this mixup
between understanding your own personal
finances, the state of the US economy,
and whether you like the person in
charge. It's just a polarized United
States economy, and it's it's seeped
into everything.
>> It's going to be a long year. Henrietta
Traer of Vader Partners. Henrietta,
thank you. Thank you very much. It's a
key issue. It's the number one issue in
this country and politicians just seem
to struggle to deal with it.
>> I had this discussion last night at the
dinner table with the kids. Do you
experience prices going up? And they
said, "Oh my god, the vending machine,
you should see quad." I mean, really,
but the fact that it's so present, it
was just sort of interesting.
>> Well, it's really also, I think, hard
for politicians to explain to the
American public, we have no control.
Well, I wouldn't say no control because
they have rewind some tariffs because
they are concerned, but the price level
is set. They can potentially try to help
when it comes to [music] the increase of
the rate going up. That's very difficult
to explain.
>> They've inherited a much much higher
price level and it's a problem and
remains a problem. Coming up on [music]
the program, Gagi Chowry of Black Rockck
seeing more momentum in the AI trade.
Plus, Danny has your morning movers
taking a look at GameStop [music] in
just a moment. That stock high by 2.5%.
>> [music]
>> The oven about 2 hours away. We're
pulling back just a touch. We're down by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P following a
three-day winning streak on the NASDAQ
100. We're down by 0.2. In [music] the
bond market, a rally this morning over
the last few hours. Yields down across
the curve. Twos out to 30s. We're down
about three or four basis points. On
10's back to 41436.
Check out [music] Europe. Euro dollar
not doing much, but the data this
morning interesting. Core CPI for the
Euro zone coming in just a little bit
softer than expected. Maybe opening the
door to a conversation at least about
lower interest rates to start the year.
>> Yeah. Or at least that the next move
isn't going to be a rate hike. [music]
Right. This is sort of the fear for the
ECB. But the idea that you have in check
inflation in the Euro region really
opening the door to the idea that isn't
going to be the inflationary source that
could potentially push yields higher,
maybe giving a little bit of fuel to
[music] this rally.
>> Euro dollar 11686.
You've got to wait until early February
for the ECB decision. But Christine
Lagard, the president, talks so much. I
imagine you'll hear from her very soon.
>> Yeah. And probably you'll hear that
they're in a balanced position and
they're not going to do anything. And
right now the market will just continue
to say la
news conferences.
>> I always love them. [music]
>> Okay, tune in to the next one in early
February. As we kick you down to the
open and bal, let's get you some morning
movers. Danny Burgerer has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. I want to check in some of the
companies involved in the Warner
Brothers Discovery deal. Not a whole lot
of movement despite an announcement
about 30 minutes ago that Warner
Brothers Discovery still sees the
Netflix deal as the best one on the
table. And the Paramount one as an
adequate behind it they say is the
structure of it. $50 billion of debt
would make it one of the largest if not
the largest leverage buyout which they
say will make it difficult to get across
the finishing line. Warner Brothers a
little bit weaker, Netflix up a half a
percent [music] and Paramount unchanged
this morning. Elsewhere, GameStop
though, shares are up nearly 3%,
announcing a new stock award
compensation plan for the CEO, Ryan
Cohen. He doesn't get a salary. He
doesn't get a bonus. So, this would be
his only pay [music] if he hits very
ambitious targets, including an hundred
billion valuation market cap for the
company, 10 in earnings or in profit
rather. So, investors excited that
[music] hey, if he can get there, that's
a good thing for the company. Finally
rounding things off with a Wall Street
Journal scoop that Eli Liy will be
buying Bentex Biosciences. It's a
biotech company that [music] makes
inflammatory disease medicines. Uh it
would be for around $1 billion. The
current valuation of Bentex [music] is
500 million. So it's a significant
premium. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. On a [music] raise this
morning, Nvidia is stepping up
production of its H200 chips for the
Chinese market as the company awaits
export approvals from the White House.
The CEO Jensen Wang saying demand for
the chips is quote very high. The stock
is up by 0.6%. Elsewhere, the energy
secretary Chris Wright meeting with oil
executives today to talk about reviving
Venezuela's energy sector. President
Trump reportedly holding his own meeting
with the CEOs on Friday to discuss plans
to drill in the country. And finally,
the Supreme Court set to release
opinions on Friday. The Trump
administration awaiting a decision on
its global tariffs. A ruling against the
levies would undercut the president's
signature economic policy and could
force the US to issue refunds to
importers.
>> And we already heard about some
companies, uh, Costco in particular,
that was preparing and laying the legal
groundwork to potentially recoup some of
that money. You have to think that other
companies have done the same. Real
question, does the market respond? Let's
say this is announced on Friday, which
it might not be, and let's say it is an
overturning of the AIPA act used as
justification. What happens? Is it the
bond market that gets royal? Is it
nothing? Does everybody just assume that
things are status quo? That to me is
going to be a really interesting tell.
Well, George Seavilla says at least when
it comes to the dollar, it's going to be
status quo. They look through this
because they are reminded that the
president does have other use cases he
can use. Section 122 never used before,
but the president can use that. 2011,
338, 301, 232s. He can go through the
commerce department or USR to figure out
a way to enact tariffs. The key issue
though politically is going to be can
this all be done in time before the
midterm elections.
>> It might make it more volatile and not
less because you're going to see a lot
of announcement to try and correct
course.
>> Yeah. If you get those announcements, I
really like the idea of starting at
ground zero. Think about if you're a
producer. Think about if you're an
importer. Think about if you're a
retailer. Suddenly, what do you do with
this? Especially because this was the
time when people were going to pass
along price increases because their
inventories are done. So all of a sudden
you get the direct pass through and
frankly ongoing uncertainty. want to
start at ground zero again. I was there
in April at the Rose Garden ceremony
when everyone thought the president was
done, but then he came out with that
huge billboard had all the rates and
then from then on [laughter] I was
waking up in the middle of the night
because there was new trade tariff
threats to another country. So I'm glad
like you can start going down there.
>> I remember you messaged me the picture
of that and I just looked at [laughter]
these numbers coming up. I was like what
is this?
>> And you go tweet that. You need to tweet
that immediately. No one sees this yet.
I was like he's about to hold up the
billboard.
>> Yeah. The market started rallying.
thinking it was just going to be what a
baseline 10% and we move on.
>> And then all of a sudden it was, you
know, the penguins.
>> What a crazy time. Yes. That and then
the market didn't care anyway.
>> Right. Exactly.
>> Middle of April, we just ripped and
never looked back.
>> It was just going to happen some other
time.
>> Then the pass through didn't happen
either on inflation in a big way anyway.
>> But this is actually the interesting
thing. The inventories absorbed a lot of
that. Now those inventories are up. So
this is the question. Are any new
tariffs going to be felt much more
directly and potentially uh prevented by
some cost of living concerns?
>> We'll build on all of this in just a
moment. Let's turn back to markets. Gaga
Chowry of Black Rockck sees one dominant
theme writing, "AI remains our top
equity investment theme as we believe
the market continues to underappreciate
the opportunity of the data center
buildout." Gagi joins us now for more.
Gagi, good morning. Happy New Year.
>> Hi, happy new year. Good morning.
>> Good to see you. Let's get to that
second line. I want to put that quote up
again
>> because I'm just sitting here thinking
underappreciating the data center
buildout. This this Mark is actually
ripped on AI themes. What are you
getting at? Well, it has ripped on AI
themes broadly, but we've also, if you
look at valuations from the start of
2025 to the end of 2025, our basket of
AI stocks um has actually actually
cheapened over the course of the year.
So, earnings growth came out as really
really solid as a result of which
obviously your PE got lower. Um so the
underappreciation I suppose is just the
recognition that every single quarter
and again it might not happen this
quarter but over the course of 2026
we're probably going to once again
surprise on earnings growth. Now what we
also go on to say in that outlook uh
beyond AI is that this is the first time
in a few years that we're finding
opportunities outside of AI as well. So
active in AI but look across the market
and we specifically talk about value and
then we talk about international as well
as other opportunities that are likely
to do well also. Well, let's start with
AI.
>> Okay.
>> The AI trade. Now, what is it in 26
compared to what it was in 24, 23, 25?
>> Absolutely. So, we actually had a client
call because we released this outlook
yesterday. And what our clients think
and I thought it was really interesting
to share is they have the AI trade, but
they want to diversify within it. They
don't want to diversify away from it.
So, they have the S&P or other forms of
AI, semiconductors for example, they
want to diversify within it. So what
that could look like and we're beginning
to see some of that already is AI with
in Asia. So we're beginning to see that
in Asian markets and Korea and Taiwan.
Could that be uh the next leg of the AI
trade where you're getting less of the
clouds uh cloud software enterprise and
you're getting more of that chip
manufacturing. So that could be one
theme and then obviously broadly
selectivity in AI we think remains key.
uh look even last year you had again
looking at our basket of 40ish AI stocks
about many of them ended the year lower
so that picking the right part of the
value chain and AI is going to be very
crucial but it remains a theme it's
going to be driving other parts of the
market which is why we're going on to
own more than AI it's not just the only
theme in town anymore
>> it seems like a rolling ball of money
and it has sort of been focused on a
couple of names in artificial
intelligence and people are looking to
roll into other areas. Memory in
particular absolutely flying. SanDisk I
know you're not going to look talk about
specific companies. Is this something
that can persist or is this just
specific fads that are cycling through
different parts of the ecosystem?
>> It might feel like it's cycling through
and when we look at the market every
single day which our jobs are to do that
I think it'll feel like it's cycling
through. But if we come back one year
later and I come to this show again, I
think over the course of the year, the
AI theme will have returned us
meaningfully and certain parts will
might have done better than others, but
the AI theme will still be something
that we're talking about. But the one
difference I think next year or this
year will be that we will also be
talking about other parts of the market.
I think uh value is a part of the market
that is going to at least uh for the
next couple of uh earning seasons show a
big pickup in uh earnings growth and
that'll drive performance. We've already
seen that. So we're talking a little bit
about tickers like BLCR which gives you
uh access to rest of the market not just
the top sort of AI themed names. How
much is that predicated on the Fed
cutting rates on potential fiscal
expansion on this idea that this AI
buildout isn't going to be inflationary?
If you look at the market performance
even in the first few uh days of the
year, I think the you know sort of the
rotation if you will that we are seeing
into some of the other parts of the
market is very much related to things
like the Fed, things like expectation of
more not less from the Fed. Especially
if we are to believe that oil prices in
the future because of supply can be
lower that uh you know takes away some
of the pressure from headline inflation.
All of that is driving the cyclicals to
vastly outperform other parts of the
market. And I think to the extent that
we believe and this is something that we
write about is that growth is going to
be higher than potential rates are going
to be lower than uh what you know what
many expect. I think that absolutely
gives tailwinds to the equity market and
uh certain parts of the equity market
like cyclicals can benefit from that.
>> When it comes to the AI data center
buildout, yesterday Jensen Wong sat down
with Ed Lello was asked about the energy
factor in all this and the anxiety
around that. And Jensen Wong said
there's never enough energy and anytime
you're on the cusp of this kind of
industrial revolution, you are always in
need of more energy. How do you think
about that gap right now? Yeah,
obviously that's something that um you
know we're thinking about a lot and I
also think that um focusing on the next
leg and you know Lisa to your point
earlier are clients now going to is
there going to be fads? So is the next
trend in power and energy and that could
certainly be the case. We've seen the
trend in you know cloud and software and
then we've obviously this today and
yesterday we've seen it in uh chips and
all of last year. Is power going to be
the next uh theme so as to say? Is that
the diversification
within the AI theme? I think so. It
could be.
>> But is there enough out there?
>> I mean, you know, this is where
financial innovation comes into play.
It's obviously a concern, but I think
that hopefully we'll find ways with um
financial innovation to be able to um
navigate this.
>> Kagi, good to see you. Thanks for being
here. to be here
>> and once again happy new year. Gaki
Chantry there of Black Rockck. You
mentioned Sandisk the move in Sandisk
just ridiculous to start the year.
>> Okay, yesterday this is one day 28%.
Right. That's the best performance since
February. But it's been what it's gained
something like 160% in just so far the
first trading days. There is this focus
on memory because Jensen Wong himself at
CES said this is the key sticking point
for us. Yes, it's energy but it's memory
because guess what? You need to remember
all those facts and put them together
and then give you some sort of cohesive
answer on chat GBT.
>> Great work from Ed once again. The last
24 hours. Fantastic. Let's give an
update on stories worldwide and
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara for more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. [music] China is ramping up its
e-commerce restrictions, unveiling
regulations that ban major platforms
from coercing online merchants into
promotions. The move is one of several
new measures aimed at cooling growing
e-commerce competition. The guidelines
take effect February. Alibaba shares
dipped on the announcement in Hong Kong
trade. Meanwhile, chat app company
Discord filing confidentially for an
IPO. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg [music] the app is working
with Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan on a
listing. Discord, which is popular with
gamers, [music] offers voice, video, and
text chatting capabilities and has more
than $200 million$200 million monthly
[music] users. And the Trump
administration is expected to advise
Americans to cut down on their sugar
intake. [music] Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg, new dietary guidelines
will urge people to eat no [music] more
than 10 gram of added sugars per meal.
They are also expected to tell Americans
to shun highly processed foods. The new
guidelines are set to be unveiled
[music]
later this week. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thank you very much. Do
we need to be told there? Is that what
we need to be told? Evidently
>> less sugar and processed foods.
>> If you're going to have banana ketchup,
reduce the sugar.
>> Getting that food we [music] were
talking about yesterday. You offending
Italians again. What's it called? Sweet
spaghetti.
>> Sweet spaghetti. Yeah. Yeah. So you're
offended because clearly this is what
you have in your home.
>> Yes. Often. Really? [music] Up next on
the program. Mom's over at the moment.
>> Oh, really? Oh, so she's she's watching
some sweet spaghetti. She's going to
come home. Honestly, right now, Mrs.
I think you're doing wonderfully. Good
job.
>> Good to save. [music] I'm next on the
program. A big year for M&A.
>> 2026 is going to be the year of big.
We're going to do deals to cut costs. I
think they're going to use this as sort
of a, you know, once in a generation
opportunity um to redeploy capital in a
very specific strategic way.
>> That conversation up next with the Ocean
First Bank Chair and CEO Chris M.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Stocks going absolutely nowhere on the
S&P 500. Pretty much unchanged. We're
down about a 2/10en of 1% on the NASDAQ
100. On the Russell, softer by just a
tenth of 1%. And [music] Savanis this
morning, a big year for M&A.
>> 2026 is going to be the year of big. You
could have banks [music] and other
companies across the space really
thinking about where their strategic
holes are. We're going to do deals to
cut costs. I think they're going to use
this as sort of a you know once in a
generation opportunity [music]
um to redeploy capital in a very
specific strategic way.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street anticipating another wave of bank
M&A after seeing a surge in deal
activity last year. Chris Mah the
chairman and CEO Ocean First Bank
writing the following institutions are
pursuing deals with the goal of building
greater scale expanding into growth
markets and establishing more
competitive regional platforms. Chris
joins us now for more. Chris, good
morning. Great to see you, John.
>> Great to see you, sir. Let's get
straight into it. Let's talk about what
they haven't been doing, what some of
these companies you serve are not doing,
which is hiring. We've seen this kind of
jobless growth over the last year, if we
can call it that. Walk us through the
companies you serve, the regions, and
whether that story is going to change at
all.
>> Yeah, so we serve a wide variety of
businesses all over the, you know, from
Washington DC through Boston, mostly New
York, Philadelphia, New Jersey, um, and
all sorts of industries. And what we're
seeing is they're just not leaning into
hiring, not bringing on new folks. If
they are, they're bringing on kind of
new young folks who have kind of native
skills around AI and machine learning.
Um, they're much more likely to make
capital investments, which is good for a
bank. You know, we get to finance that.
Uh, but not a lot of hiring. A lot of,
uh, just caution.
>> What do you think speaks to that?
They're not sitting on their hands.
They're deploying capital. They're
making big decisions. We talked about
the M&A. Yeah.
>> What speaks to the lack of hiring?
>> I think what they're seeing is their
businesses are doing well without a need
for hiring. So, they're seeing growth.
They're seeing opportunities, backlogs
increasing. So there are some segments
obviously construction the stuff that
the real economy uh where you've got to
get the hiring done but for the most
part you don't need that to grow
revenue.
>> How much is this really concentrated in
the larger companies that you serve and
I wonder after Cameron Dawson was on and
she was saying essentially a lot of the
big companies are already monopolistic
or oligarchies kind of in their fields
and they can create these efficiencies
of scale and just pass along slight
increases. Is that kind of what you see
as well?
>> Absolutely. You know, we you're exactly
right. When you the larger you get, the
bigger your scale becomes, the more the
economies of scale matter in things like
the back office. So, I'll use our bank
as an example. Uh we've reduced our back
office headcount by a third in the last
two years. Um and doing the same things,
keeping our customers happy, customer
satisfaction's higher, but we're just
able to do more with less. So, we're
focusing our hiring on the front office,
the customer relationships, revenue
focusing focus. How much does this sort
of uh redouble the emphasis then on
growth on whether growth organically or
growth by acquisition?
>> Yeah. Well, they're both important. You
know, we we've been focused on organic
growth over the last 5 years, grown the
bank about 45% since co hit. So, you
know, very pleased with that
organically, but this is an opportunity
where M&A can make a difference as well.
So, when you compare M&A that
complements your organic strategy, I
think that's a real win. When you say
that you're, you know, getting rid of
some jobs in the back back office,
moving them to the front office, do you
then think that AI will not be the
ultimate replacer of jobs, there will
still be work in the future?
>> You know, Amry, when you think about
growth, if you're growing, I think
you're able to grow into the new economy
and you're going to have the same amount
of jobs maybe deployed a little bit
differently. But that's why growth is so
critical. If you're not growing, you're
not going to have the opportunity to
redeploy the resources around the
company.
>> You mentioned M&A. So, what are you
expecting for this year? Because a lot
of people thought we were going to see
really robust mergers and acquisitions
under the first year of the Trump
administration.
>> Well, I think, you know, it takes a
little while for things to settle out
for people to understand the new um kind
of rules of the road. There's been a lot
better transparency, I think, around
what those rules are. We stepped back
in. We we took about a 5year hiatus from
Bank M&A um but just last week announced
our first deal in five years. Um, and
partially we did that to complement our
organic growth strategy here in New
York, but also because we knew the risk
would be lower because we got better
transparency about how that approval
process will flow. The time to get it
done will be faster. So the certainty
around execution is just a lot better.
>> Is that another way of saying the
politics changed?
>> That is that's a a very good way to put
it, John. But the the rules have
changed, the transparency has changed,
and the predictability. You know, in if
you went back a couple years ago, it was
not unusual for a bank M&A deal to take
more than a year to get approved. And
that year is a tremendously expensive
time. You know, you suffer the risk of
distraction, other things happening. So,
you know, we're looking forward to the
the better transparency, better
execution, ability to to do it faster.
>> You're not alone. We've seen a lot of
bank bank mergers and just mergers in
general. I'm just wondering, we've
talked before about how there are
thousands of regional banks in this
country and that could get whittleled
down to about half the number as it uh
has been over the past few years. Do you
foresee that type of wave of M&A coming?
Is that the kind of activity that you
expect?
>> You know, it'll be slow and steady.
You'll see it over the next few years. I
don't think we're going to cut the
number of banks in half. Uh but they
will come down. Um I think we're going
to get more competitive regional banks.
I think that's great for our economy. We
need more larger banks to to have a
little more competition that end of the
spectrum. We're also seeing something
really interesting. Denovo banks are
back. That's a big change under this
administration. So, they're welcoming
Denovo banks. You're seeing new banks
being chartered for the first time in
years. Um, and that's a net positive.
>> Chris, are you looking outside the
regions you're operating in?
>> I'm sorry.
>> Are you looking outside of the regions
you're operating in?
>> No. You know, we're really fortunate. We
operate here in the Northeast, so which
is the deepest banking market in the US.
So um so we can grow here for many many
years and stay right here in the
northeast
>> because you talked about the need to get
bigger. Can you achieve that scale in
the Northeast?
>> Oh absolutely. You know when we think
about like our market share in New York
is still you in the 1% range. I think we
can move it up a great deal.
>> Chris, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. We appreciate it.
Chris Mer, the Ocean First Bank chairman
and CEO on some of the M&A activity.
They've been a part of that and the M&A
activity we could see in the year ahead
given the politics shifts and the uh the
greater transparency. Yeah, the great
transparency around diplomatic way of
putting things.
>> Well, yeah, that basically this
administration has reduced a lot of the
regulations and has given a green light
to a lot of the consolidation. The other
point about a third of the back office
no longer being necessary with the same
amount of work coming out and
productivity. It raises this issue, what
parts of the workforce are going to be
rendered obsolete and what parts of the
workforce are a lot of companies going
to lean into even as they look for
economies of scale. That is going to be
a real focus. And if that is an issue,
say we do see higher unemployment
because of AI. How does the Fed address
that? No one has been able to answer
that question. It's incredibly
challenging. Are we on the cusp of
potentially needing less jobs and
potentially we'll get more insight into
that as well.
>> Sounds like a massive political problem,
not just for the Federal Reserve, but
for whoever's in power down in
Washington DC. I don't know how you
navigate that. Can't just keep pointing
to GDP and saying growth is fine if
hiring is slow. That's going to hurt you
when it comes to voting time.
>> Yeah. When you have the likes of Bernie
Sanders uh cozying up with a number of
Republicans, you start Exactly. then you
start thinking, okay, this is
increasingly a political issue and it
goes to the energy costs as well. You
have seen energy in specific areas get
much more expensive at the same time
that jobs aren't being created. How does
this sort of percolate out into some
sort of restriction around AI? And this
is actually one thing that people are
talking about how how much regulatory
risk is there around maybe constraining
some of this growth in DC? and Donald
Trump and individuals like David Sachs,
they really want to own this AI trade in
the United States. Steve Ben has said
you got to be careful when you do that,
not just because of jobs and
electricity. Look at the unemployment
rate right now of college grads. They
are struggling to find jobs. And how
much of this is potentially there's a
mismatch or is this really AI?
>> At the moment, it's not a market
problem. The market's getting the best
of both worlds. Earnings are decent. You
get the low rates as well to adjust to
what's happening in the labor market.
But at some point, you talked about the
younger generation. and how they voting.
That's going to have consequences
ultimately for financial markets in the
not too distant future if they carry on
voting in the kind of people that voted
in right here in New York City.
>> That definitely will become a political
issue. Before that, last night I was
actually wondering which jobs are
getting disrup disrupted most. I'm
thinking call centers that must be
absolutely obliterated. And you look up
a lot of the call centers were customer
service full suite of things. You don't
need to have an AI bot. It was sort of
interesting to see that not necessarily
reflected.
>> More still to come. Up next on the
program, John Bilton of JP Morgan Asset
Management, Tony Wong [music] of Troll
Price, Kathy Boschantic of Nationwide,
and David Rubenstein of Carlile. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
[music]
There should be some broadening out, but
we are not ready to bet against tech.
hyperscalers are going to drive more and
more of the outcomes.
>> I am kind of keen on the impressive 493.
Everybody's focusing on the magnificent
7. The majority of these companies have
very very robust cash flow.
>> Investors have really gotten bowled up
on is a very strong economy in 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and an Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
The opening [music] battle about 90
minutes away and your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500 down
by not even a tenth of 1% pulling back
by a quarter on the NASDAQ 100. Lots to
look forward to this week. Tons of
[music] economic data. Payrolls on
Friday. The ADP jobs report about 14
minutes away, setting the tone for jobs
later this week.
>> Yeah, do we get an increase of 50,000
jobs in that ADP print and what does
that mean for [music] what we get in
Friday? Currently, the average among
estimates uh compiled by Bloomberg
[music] is 65,000 for the change in
non-farm payrolls at the end of this
week. Okay, let's say we get that right.
Do we understand what that means in
terms of the break even rate [music] and
what that means for unemployment? I
certainly don't. So, it's sort of like
the roar shock test continues [music]
where you can get the number and what
does that actually mean?
>> I don't either, but I'd like to see a
bounce. I think we all would. And we
might get a bounce in a moment. We're
looking for [music] 50k on the ADP
employment change when that number drops
at 8:15 Eastern time. Well, also
thinking about what this means for the
Federal [music] Reserve and the
unemployment number coming out on
Friday. City just put this at holding
pattern. Many Fed officials see policy
rates as [music] now having entered the
range of neutral. Maybe less urgency to
rescue policy rates. Does this
potentially mean if the labor market
holds up? This [music] is going to push
what some people are thinking two three
rate cuts way down the timeline. And the
reason why I care about the timeline is
[music] because this is an election year
and it's a key midterm election year. If
if if the labor market stabilizes, and
that's good news if you're in the
business of politics, you want the labor
market to stabilize, hiring to pick up.
Andrew Hollenhorse has said he's not
expecting that. He's looking for
unemployment to carry on that drift
towards 5%. That's a problem.
>> Yeah. And he's not alone with that. This
is also someone Andrew Hollenor does
expect them to [music] cut rates in
their January 28th meeting. So later
this month, he does expect the beginning
of a series of rate cuts. This is the
issue that people have. The labor market
is an enigma right now. People don't
understand how much it's AI related job
losses, how much companies just [music]
are looking for reasons not to hire, how
much we are in a massive transition time
where it is important to run the economy
a little bit hot so there can be that
growth to prevent unemployment rates
from getting incredibly high.
>> We'll [music] get some jobs data in just
a moment. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with John Bilton of JP Morgan
Asset Management as stocks are trading
their all-time highs, Tony Wong of Tro
Price as the race for AI dominance is
expanding and Kathy Bchandic of
Nationwide with investors preparing for
a fresh read on the labor market. We
begin this hour with stock stalling
following the first record close of the
year. John Bilton of JP Morgan Asset
Management writing, "Given our
expectation of a moderate pick up in the
pace of growth in 26, we see potential
for positive equity returns." John
joined us now for more. John, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. We've been
flattered. We've been blessed by some
really, really decent double-digit gains
on the S&P 500.
>> Is there more to come? Well, I think if
you believe that the economy is in a
decent place, you believe we're going to
get fiscal stimulus coming through this
year, we see unemployment, you know,
behaving itself per your earlier
comments just now, if we see the impact,
which is always delayed of the Fed cuts
coming through and actually supporting
the economy, which we think they will,
then if you look back through history,
nine times out of 10 in a year with no
recession, and we're not calling for a
recession, we think the odds are pretty
low, then the S&P delivers posit
positive total returns. So sure, if you
want to bet against stocks, go crazy.
But the odds are not your way.
>> Skates where the puck is going. Where do
I want to be now already to take
advantage of some of this?
>> Well, we think that what we're going to
be seeing this year is, you know, a
little bit more in terms of the
continuation from some of the themes
last year, things like that gradual
weakening of the dollar, which is going
to flatter some of the international
markets. Of course, if we look at what
happened with Europe, with the US, you
know, the indices in terms of their
returns in local currency were not too
dissimilar, but you got a big boost as a
US dollar investor if you were beginning
to be a bit more adventurous and look
outside. We've obviously got that AI
trade which continues. We think it's
important in the US, but remember, it's
a concentrated piece of the market.
People want to be able to find a
different way to invest. Asia looks
pretty good there. you know, some of the
impact in terms of the investments that
have been made in the last few years
start to bear fruit. Does it broaden out
across the economy? I think that's the
sort of themes that folks are looking
for this year trying to put a few more
eggs in a few different baskets.
>> I was going to ask how adventurous do
you want to get Samsung or Venezuela
bonds?
>> I think we [laughter]
>> I think Well, there's a few themes
there, aren't there? I mean one of the
other things which I think is supportive
of the economy generally is is is this
emphasis on oil prices coming down right
so anything which is freeing up supply
potentially being a bit of a sort of
downward pressure on oil prices
ultimately is good for the consumer
that's ultimately good in the US it's
supported globally as well of course but
that's going to be something which
matters a great deal you know just
having another year of the economy being
a global cons a going concern globally I
think that's really important for
confidence which in the US if we look at
consumer confidence it's been hit pretty
hard actually if we look at where the
stock market is versus where consumer
sentiment is you know there's a big
dichotomy there and it's even worse in
Europe
>> it's really a difficult narrative to get
my head around pretty much the entirety
of of this year is going to be a
difficult thing to get [laughter] my
head around but I'm wondering people say
the commodity costs are going down
because oil prices are going down and
then we look at copper then we look at
lithium then we look at some of the
other inputs [clears throat] at all-time
highs continuing to skyrocket gold and
silver etc so some of the other inputs
that we're going to be using
increasingly, electricity costs. So, how
do you square this idea of the
disinflation from oil prices and frankly
the inflation from the rest of the
commodity sector which a lot of people
are betting will continue?
>> Well, I think you put it into the chain
it works in that the push up in
commodities prices is a symptom of the
investment that's being made and the
investments that are being made at the
moment are in building productive
capacity. It's in electrification which
will ultimately bring down costs. It's
also in data centers which is a huge
part of the AI um sort of infrastructure
buildout. We're going through a massive
building phase at the moment. A phase
where we're building productive capacity
and we know that the biggest driver of
total factor productivity over the long
run is the investment made in those
productive assets. That's what we're
seeing today. Yes, of course there's
going to be tightness in places. I mean
the swing demand today for copper is not
China as it always was for many, many
years. It's much more what's going on in
terms of electric vehicles. It's what's
going on in terms of data centers. So,
it's a symptom, I believe, of a bigger
theme, which is this big investment
phase that we're seeing right now.
>> You say that you're becoming more
constructive on Europe, specifically
Germany, this made in Germany. How is
that possible when China has been
decimating their industrial base?
>> Well, I think we've got a few things. I
mean, this is not new news. You Chinese
competition in Europe has been a big
deal for the European Union for some
time. There's been a lot of talk about
concerns over over product dumping, that
sort of thing. But what's been happening
beneath the surface is that you've gone
through a couple of years of German
industrial production really being on
its knees, very little inward
investment, very little infrastructure
investment, and really what we saw last
year was the opening up of the fiscal
taps very rapidly followed by opening up
of capex taps. Now, European savings
rates for households currently sit at
15.3%. That's the highest level outside
of the pandemic. You've got the biggest
consumer block in the world, not
spending. This year, we've got incomes
now rising ab above the pace of
inflation. Start to turn that back on.
And I'm not suggesting European
consumers suddenly become US
consumer-like, but just at the margin,
that can give a big boost. And although
the PMIs earlier this week were a little
bit softer than expected, they're still
coming in in line with a 1.6% GDP growth
rate, which is, you know, half as much
again as the growth rate in the first
half of last year.
>> Do you think the German fiscal impulse
translates to the rest of continental
Europe?
>> Not necessarily, because this is the
issue with Europe or what holds it back
in many regards is not everyone has the
same fiscal space. But make no mistake,
I mean, Germany still remained the
biggest block within Euro zone and it
really is the heartland of industrial
production within the Euro zone. So
really sort of getting that piece right
to sit alongside some of the strength
we've seen in Spain, other parts of the
periphery and offset some of the
concerns in France, that's a big deal in
terms of taking it from a continent that
many folks had forgotten that still
managed to do in dollar terms 30% on its
equity index last year and all of a
sudden it can come out and surprise
people. John, can we finish on a simple
but I think highly consequential
question which is what are the
indicators I should track this year and
what should I ignore? We've got ADP in
about six minutes time got payrolls on
Friday. If I tracked those and just said
you know what based on that data point
I'm going to be long or short this
equity market I'd have got things very
wrong in the last 12 months. What should
I ignore? What should I pay attention
to?
>> Well I think you know if if only there
was one indicator we could all watch. I
mean you know but then frankly I'd be
out of a job. So [laughter]
>> can it help you more? What I think
matters most of all is the fundamentals.
It's what are companies doing? Are they
able to translate this massive
investment flow into earnings? Remember
with the labor market, we've gone
through a seismic change last year.
We've gone from a huge overupp lot of
excess capacity coming into the labor
market. That's now gone. So we we've
gone through that sort of right sizing
if you like of the labor market. It's a
much lower level of payrolls needed to
keep track with trend GDP growth. It's
in the 50 to 60,000 range, not in the
200,000 range as it was. So, you're
talking smaller numbers, but at the end
of the day, America's superpower is its
corporate sector. If its corporate
sector is building profits and it's
creating a positive return on the
massive investment that's coming
through, then that's a reason to be
constructive.
>> Earning season starts next week, John,
it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you, sir. John Bilton
there of JP Morgan Asset Management. ADP
numbers drop in about 5 minutes time.
Before we get to that, let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. [music]
JP Morgan's asset management unit is
cutting ties with proxy advisory firms.
Sourc [music] is telling us here at
Bloomberg the unit will instead use an
AI powered platform called Proxy IQ
[music] to assist with voting US company
shares. JP Morgan thinks it's the first
large firm to entirely stop using
external proxy advisors. Meanwhile,
President Donald Trump said Venezuela
will send up to 50 [music] million
barrels of oil to the US. That's worth
roughly $2.8 billion at the current
market price and represents about 50
days of Venezuelan oil production. Sourc
is telling [music] us here at Bloomberg
that President Trump could meet with
energy executives at the White House as
soon as [music] tomorrow.
and Poly Market is refusing to pay out
bets that said the US would invade
[music] Venezuela, arguing the mission
to capture Venezuelan leader Nicholas
Maduro does not constitute an invasion.
[music] It says it will only pay out
bets if the US takes control of a
Venezuelan territory. This after a wager
netted more than $400,000
betting on the timing of Maduro's
capture. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, [music]
thank you. Thanks for the update. Up
next, the latest ADP employment data set
to cross. We'll catch up with Mike McKe
to break down the numbers. Plus, Tony
Wonk of Tro Price as the race for AI
dominance continues [music] to expand.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Moments away from the latest
ADP [music] jobs data. Before we get
there, here's the price action. Down
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P, down by
two on the NASDAQ. Let's get to the
morning calls. First up, Barclay's
downgrading BJ's Wholesale to
underweight, noting concern around
topline momentum. Elsewhere, Wolf
Research now grading Bank of America to
peer perform saying [music] its net
interest income upside is reflected in
numbers. The stock is down by about
0.6%. [music] And your third and final
call comes from the team over at
Canacord raising its price target on
Alphabet to 390 noting Gemini's rapid
scale. That stock this morning is down
by a few ten of 1%. But the big winner
of the last 12 months, surprising
[music] many, Alphabet, Gemini, and
really the strength that we started to
see coming from that company. So, that's
the latest from some of your morning
movers. Let's get the latest from the
data. Mike McKe has more for you. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. ADP is out with its
monthly uh estimate of jobs created in
the month of December. 41,000 they say.
Uh annual pay up 4.4%. The change in
private employment of course is 41,000.
They don't measure what's happening with
government. In the goods producing area
down 3,000, manufacturing off by 5,000,
construction and uh mining add a,000
each. Service providing jobs 44,000. And
of course, education and health services
leads that pack 39,000. But 24,000 uh
leisure and hospitality jobs, we had
seen a pullback in that area in recent
months. Now the question is, does
anybody really care about ADP since
we're going to get uh non-farm payrolls
from the BLS on Friday? Th those numbers
are back. I don't know if we get a shot
of Lisa's face. She's the always the one
that reacts to
>> I'll just answer for my I mean the short
answer for most is
>> she's probably rolling her eyes.
>> She cared about it for 43 days. Hold on
a second. You know, a lot of people
cared about it. [laughter] The market
did get a little bit tick of some sort
of response. So yields a little bit
lower. Carry on.
>> This is the bounce Mike we were looking
for though, right? And hopefully we get
another bounce on Friday. How much
should we read into this bounce Mike?
>> Well, that's always a hard question with
ADP. uh we did get a bounce and we are
expecting a bounce in non-farm payroll.
So in the sense of direction, yes they
they may be offering some prediction but
in terms of numbers it's never never
works out that way. I will point out
that uh we have seen a steady rise in
the forecast consensus forecast for jobs
uh we're now at uh let me check the the
latest number is uh 66,000. So, we've
gone up another thousand since yesterday
uh for the non-farm payrolls consensus
forecast. Uh those are still low
numbers, but uh remember the Fed is
looking not so much at those as they are
unemployment.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Thanks for the
update. ADP coming in at 41K, the
estimate 50,000 for December.
>> There are some really interesting
details here and I do think it's
important to note them. Uh service
providing jobs rose 44,000. You pair
that with ISM services that we did get
uh in a little less than two hours time.
Do we get the employment component there
picking up to the same degree? Pair that
with Jolts. Get the data on Friday. Do
we get a sense that there is some heat
underneath the employment market?
>> We'll come back to Mike a little bit
later on that story. Let's turn to tech
executives behind the AI trade adding
fuel to the big race.
>> AI is really going to be everywhere and
that's really for everyone. Once we we
then realize that AI creates real world
impact. This is where it really deploys
the full power and also the economic
power.
>> This is really about being able to do
the impossible and being able to do it
imposs the impossible right the first
time.
>> Those executives speaking to Bloomberg's
Ed Lllo. Ed joins us now for more. Ed,
welcome to the program. We were saying
earlier, great work in the last 24
hours. Ed, if there was a headline for
you, walk it away from CES, which hasn't
wrapped up yet, of course, but what's
the headline early on for you?
>> Yeah, 2026 will be a growth year. You
know, the the narrative that uh that
this kind of unstoppable AI wave
continues is still there. And you know,
I did my best John to kind of say, well,
are you worried about the debt that's
supporting all of the infrastructure
buildout? What about energy as a
bottleneck? Particularly in the case of
Nvidia and Seammens, right? you know,
Seammens is a company that we talk about
less, but it's been around for almost
200 years and is basically in every
factory around the planet. Um, and you
know, at least in in that um context, I
I managed to get some concession from
both Jensen Wong and and the CEO of
Seammens that there's a there's a level
of anxiety that that they will always
need more uh electricity and that
they're going to have to at some point
think about that. Um, but you know,
other than that, you know, this may not
be the the answer you're looking for.
Nothing's changed really, at least when
it comes to those that are on the GPU
side of the equation.
>> At that some point was kind of
yesterday, last week, a month ago, maybe
years and years ago. It's arrived. They
got to do something about the energy
situation now.
>> Yeah. I mean later on in the day after
we'd spoken with Jensen he, you know, he
gave a press conference where there were
several more questions about energy and
his concession was the reality is that
they're going to need multiple sources.
Natural gas is a word that he used along
with, you know, renewables like solar. I
think what was interesting in the
conversation that that I had with him is
that he went by geography and by region.
So you know in Europe uh he he was
acknowledging that there's a deficit
there and in the United States more
needs to be done. Then we moved to Asia
and he kind of paused and was like in
Asia you know also meaning China
actually they've got their act together
much more uh on on the different sources
of energy particularly right on on
nuclear and and the scale of their
capacity um but it is certainly I you
know based on the conversations of the
last 24 hours that that is going to be a
serious and hard conversation to have in
2026.
>> Ed we'll let you get some rest ahead of
the show in a few hours time. Thank you,
sir. Ed Lllo of Blimp Technology. To
build on this, Tony Wong of Tro Price
manages the science and technology fund
with tech giants like Nvidia, Apple, and
Microsoft leading the portfolio. Tony
writes the following. AI value creation
is fragmentating rather than
consolidating for markets that creates
more investable opportunities, but also
greater dispersion. Tony joins us now
for more. Tony, always enjoy hearing
from you, sir. So, welcome. Just build
on some of that and put some names
around that story. What are you
expecting this year?
Yeah. Well, I think that uh over the
last few years, there's been a lot of
debate of uh you know, is this a zero-
sum game? And I feel like, you know, you
think about what's happened over the
years like Google, Meta, you know, Open
AI, Anthropic, they've all done really
well. And I think that partially it's a
largely a market expanding opportunity
here. And it's almost like a the space
race is on, but you know, the space race
is going to multiple moons. And so to me
it's exciting to see um you know various
areas of value creation for example
anthropics more focused on coding you
seeing uh open AI in enterprise you know
Google's doing really well in search and
so they're kind of redefining uh
different TAMs and that's what's
exciting I think as a tech investor
>> we were talking earlier Tony about how
in tech there seems to be a ball of
money that's rolling to new fad places
and energy has been one area as a
potential constraint but so is memory we
were talking earlier about SanDisk
shares is jumping 28%. Western Digital
shares gaining 16% yesterday. This
entire space getting a real sense of a
reboot because Jensen Wong said this is
the main chokeold. How much does this
have legs?
>> Yeah. Well, I think that um the market's
starting to recognize that memory is a
really strategic asset here and uh you
know, historically it's been viewed more
as a commodity and I think that you look
at like the bottleneck here uh memory is
becoming more of the uh you know core uh
bottleneck here. So I think it's like
HBM for example uh has been talked about
in focus but now also you know due to
like having the need for storage context
uh NAND um is also a big deal now and
you see that Ver Rubin is going to have
16 terabytes of SSD nan and so to me
that's like a new uh you know market for
uh nan and I think that's pretty
exciting and additive to uh kind of
where the market is. Have the results
from some of the uh the computing really
justified the increasing costs? We heard
Samsung overnight at CES talking about
how they were going to end up raising
prices because there just aren't enough
chips and there isn't enough memory.
>> Yeah, I mean I think that uh I think
you're seeing um you know there's been
you know several years of uh memory over
supplied actually and as a result these
things are are generally cyclical. Um
and I think that we're seeing a lot more
um secular growth from data center and
it's becoming a bigger market. Um and so
I I think that you probably will see
more tightness. Um and then also now
like the the market has consolidated in
terms of there's fewer players and it's
more rational and disciplined and so um
and and the requirements for data center
uh for DRAM especially are increasingly
more difficult. So fewer players can
actually do it. So um to me I think it
could be more sustainable than previous
cycles. Tony, you say the most
interesting opportunities are those that
are quietly racing to less crowded
moons. Can you give us some examples?
>> Yeah. Well, I think that um you know,
when you think about what will really
matter, I think in terms of deploying
AI, I think it's going to be a lot of um
you know, really specialized knowledge.
And so I think that when you're looking
at deploying the enterprise, you see
like Palunteer for example really taking
this for deployed engineer approach. And
so I think that's what it's really going
to take. Um and it can't just be you
know just the frontier model alone. I
think there's going to be a lot of
specialized knowledge. Um and as a
result it's not going to be um so much
like acrewing to one player potentially.
So I think it's exciting that you know
you could see um you know beneficiaries
across you know various industries like
financial services, healthcare um and
and as a result um you know be see a
broadening of AI impact here. Not to get
too existential, but Lisa did bring up a
very good point yesterday in regards to
Taiwan and the geopolitical concerns.
Our entire AI trade is tethered to
Taiwan. Does this concern you at all?
How do you think about this in this day
and age right now?
>> Yeah. Well, it's definitely um been been
a real concern over the, you know, last
decade really. So, I I don't think it's
a new concern. Um they're definitely
mitigating factors but at the end of the
day I think that the world is super
interconnected and um you know I think
that as a result like I think the
company the countries and the companies
need to cooperate together and make sure
that uh we continue to have a good
existence uh and a collaborative one.
>> Tony it's good to catch up with you.
Thank you sir. Tony Wong there of Tro
Price. Bit of a short visit there
because I want to bring you this is a
delicate developing story and it's
certainly a heightened geopolitical risk
story for that matter as well. I'm sure
many of you have been tracking this
Russian flagged Venezuela linked vessel
that's made its way up into the northern
Atlantic. This according to people
familiar with the matter. The US at the
moment is attempting to seize that
vessel. That vessel of course known as
the Marinara. This is the information we
have on hand at the moment. According to
people familiar with the matter, they
are attempting to seize that Russian
flagged Venezuela linked tanker in the
northern Atlantic. We'll come back to
that story in just a moment. We'll also
catch up with Kathy Boschanic of
Nationwide looking ahead to payrolls on
Friday. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers with [music] memory stocks very
much in focus. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
A strong start to the year. A strong
start to the first full trading week of
2026. A 3-day winning streak on the S&P
and this morning just about unchanged
going into the opening bow 60 minutes
away on the NASDAQ. We're down 210 of
1%. [music] With your morning movers,
let's cross over to Danny Burger for
more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Uh right before the
commercial break, you all were talking
about the huge run in memory chip
stocks. It is taking a breather today
after all of these hit new records,
gaining at least 10% in the case of
SanDisk, [music] more than 20%
yesterday. Down about 1.4%, 4% but it
really was those comments from Jensen
[music] Hong that the main bottleneck is
this that's been helping fuel the rally
to start this year. Otherwise, some deal
news that we're looking at. Mobile, this
is the autonomous vehicle company has
bought a robotics company in Israel
based one uh for $900 million. [music]
This means it joins the ranks of Tesla
of other autonomous car companies in
both the US and China that's looking at
putting humanoid robots onto the scene
too. Those shares up 13.7%.
Finally, some sellside action. First
Solar getting a downgrade from Jeffrey
saying that there's concern around
tariffs, lack of any policy support
coming from here and frankly just too
high valuations. That downgrade leading
to a share price drop in the pre-market
of just over 4.3%. [music]
John
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to
more updates from you and the team in
about 30 minutes time alongside Matt
Miller to guide you towards the opening
bell in 60 minutes from now. I want to
get you up to speed on a breaking
developing story that we've been
tracking. And I know many of you at home
are tracking the same story as well. A
Russian flagged Venezuela linked vessel,
that tanker has made its way into the
North Atlantic. The vessel known as the
Marinara. The latest we've got for you
from our reporting is that the United
States attempting to seize that tanker.
That a developing story happening right
now.
>> And last night, the Wall Street Journal
was reporting that Russia sent a
submarine and some other naval assets to
escort this tanker. Um, this is pretty
unprecedented. In normal times, in
international waters, we would not board
a tanker. So, a lot of questions are
going to be asked. Did the United States
just board an asset of another country?
Are they undertaking formal action
against another government? And if the
president of United States is trying to
set deterrence, what does this mean for
the entire shadow fleet, not just
Venezuela, Iran, and a lot of that oil
that goes to China?
>> Yeah, this is a sanctioned uh ship that
had already been in the sights of the US
government. The US had been tracking it.
It had a Venezuela flag. It changed it
to a Russian flag potentially to avoid
scrutiny. It avoided a blockade. A
question here now from Moscow saying
that it's monitoring the situation with
concern. Again, it seems to be
escalating after what happened over the
weekend.
>> We'll keep track of this story for you.
When we get headlines, we'll share them
with you. Also notable and worth
tracking to, the US energy secretary
Chris Wright about to convene and
participate in a fireside chat at the
Goldman Sachs Energy Conference. So I
imagine there might be some newsworthy
questions for him once that starts.
>> Yeah. The question is where do you even
begin? I mean not only with respect to
government support for any kind of
intervention or uh development in
Venezuela, but also what is going on in
terms of what the parameters are and how
far the US will be willing to go
particularly for for uh ships that
already have been sanctioned. And then
going back to just the president's truth
last night, the president said that
Venezuela, the interimm authorities of
Venezuela were his his words are turning
over 30 to 50 million barrels of high
quality. And then the president went on
to say that money will be controlled by
me. What exactly does that mean?
>> That's the latest. When we have more,
we'll share it with you. Let's turn back
to the data. Jobs numbers set to cross
at 10 a.m. Eastern time. We had the ADP
numbers just moments ago. Wrapping it
all together is Mike McKe. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. And don't forget ISM
services coming up. Let's start with
those ADP numbers because they do seem
to have sparked a bit of a turnaround in
futures, although we're back negative.
Now, ADP reporting 41,000 jobs created
in the month of December for the private
sector. They don't measure government
jobs. And it does suggest a bit of a
rebound from a minus 29,000 in November.
And that kind of tells you that maybe
the labor market isn't falling apart.
And uh that's made markets a little
happier than they were. Will they still
be happy at 10:00? That's the question.
As uh the ISM services index expected to
drop as we saw with the ISM
manufacturing index on Monday. And of
course, everybody's going to want to go
under the hood. And this week, because
of the jobs numbers, they want to look
at uh employment. And the forecast there
is for a very slight rise to 49 from
489, but that's still contraction. So
that would suggest bad news for the
Friday BLS numbers. uh jolts being two
months behind doesn't give you as much
of a heads up on what we're going to get
in terms of the November num the
December payroll numbers, but the
November jolts are expected to show a
little bit tiny bit of a drop in job
openings. What everybody really uh looks
at with them is the quits rate which was
1.8% in November and the layoffs rate
which was 1.2%. We'll have to see. Those
don't get consensus forecasts, but we'll
have to see uh if those worsen in any
way to suggest that the labor market is
slowing down because it's all about how
the labor market is doing right now and
uh how the Fed would react to that.
>> It is the number one question without a
doubt. Mike, thank you. Appreciate it.
Mike Wright, also ISM services, the one
to watch a little bit later this
morning. Just on the jobs data, Mike
also right to point out the response in
the equity market. It's tiny tiny
bounce, but ultimately the initial bias
is good news is good news
>> because right now you're not seeing job
creation at a pace that's really going
to reignite inflation fears in any kind
of dramatic way. If we're talking about
40, 50, 60,000 jobs being created, not
exactly going gang busters, but not
falling off a cliff. And I think that
that really is the sweet spot right now
for markets.
>> Here's a view on Wall Street. This from
Kathy Boschantic of Nationwide writing,
"Expect the Fed to pause its policy
easing over the first half of 26 to
assess incoming labor market and
inflation data. We expect two additional
rate cuts beginning in June. Kathy joins
us now for more. Kathy, welcome to the
show. What's special about June? Why
that mark, that circle on the calendar?
>> Yeah, good morning, John. Happy to be
with you. Well, I think by then uh at
least our estimates show that inflation
has peaked and and starts to trend
lower. That's really important uh for
Fed officials. And then, as you know,
Fed Chair Pal's term ends in May. So,
we'll have a new uh head of the the
Federal Open Market Committee, and we
think that person will, whoever the, you
know, one of the three leading
candidates is is likely to be more
doubbish. But I think the key is
inflation um peaking and starting to
trend lower.
>> Right now, Kathy, uh we're talking about
the potential for the Fed to ease
financial conditions at a time where the
conditions are quite easy. I was looking
at the yields on high yield bonds and
they've actually reached the lowest
going back to 2022. you could see
spreads really compressing. At what
point does the Fed take a look at what's
going on in financial markets as a
reason not to ease further to sort of
hold off for now?
>> Yeah, great great question. Um, I think
what what I kind of look to is is the
govern comments Fed Governor Wallers's
made that yes, overall financial
conditions are quite easy, but if you
look at financial conditions for the
consumer, especially those on the lower
part of the the cave, right, of the
K-shaped consumer, they're really
struggling and and financing um
conditions are not easier for them,
right? Even though mortgage rates have
come down a bit, you know, six and a
quarter, that's still quite high. And
then if you look at u borrowing rates
for for automobiles that's also still
quite high. So I think that you know the
Federal Reserve needs to take that into
consideration. U think about you know
main street consumer and and still uh
and they and they have the room to to
lower interest rates. You know we're not
talking 100 basis points at this point
but 50 basis points helps. And I think
it validates what's priced into the
markets. That's key because if the Fed
is not going to cut 50 basis points,
then yields actually went back up
higher.
>> John was talking earlier about how it's
going to be really interesting to see
how the market responds considering that
it really hasn't responded much to the
employment numbers. What kind of number
could we get on Friday that would
potentially wake up markets either to
the upside or to the downside?
>> Yeah, you know, employment is going to
be really interesting because there's so
many uh crosscurrens going on right now.
So one thing I would say is when I
looked back at the October November data
actually thought even though the
headline number was quite weak
especially for October a lot of that was
because of the um government workers
that had been uh furled or or laid off
actually um finally rolling off
severance and you could see that um
hitting the data but if you look at
private payrolls they had firmed
actually the three-month moving average
for private payrolls 75,000 as of
November that was up meaningful from
13,000 um in August. So I think the
private sector has recovered. We'll see
what the data show us on Friday. That's
what's really going to be key for us.
And I think your point, Lisa, that we're
in the sweet spot. You know, good enough
employment numbers. The labor market is
not falling apart, but um wage gains are
moderating, right? So labor costs for
companies are quite manageable and uh
and I would say you know come far off
the the real boil point that we saw a
few few years ago.
>> Kathy I know you think the uncertainty
around policy changes is going to fade
this year but on Friday we may get a
decision from the sup Supreme Court
about AIPA. How are you thinking about
the impact of tariffs?
>> Yeah. So, so great question. That does
that does give the potential to be a bit
messy and increase um uncertainty. Um I
think even if if if the court rules that
the AIPA tariffs are not, you know,
constitutional, they're removed, I think
the administration's really ready to
step up with other options to um to put
tariffs back on. So, I think, you know,
in the long run, you know, we're going
to get, you know, we're going to
continue to see these tariffs stay. And
I think companies have been able to
manage it quite well. I think better
than many thought. And um so I'm I'm not
looking for that to be a big disruptor.
It could be a bit messy, no doubt. Um
but I think the tariffs are here to
stay. And I think companies by and large
have have managed them. And actually the
effective tariff rate like when you look
at customs duties are less than what the
announced tariff rates have been. And I
think that's why we're not seeing as
much of an impact on the economy and
inflation than what was feared.
>> We'll be watching Friday. Let's see if
we get a decision or not. Kathy, thank
you. Kathy Pochic there of Nationwide.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump told House
Republicans that they should turn around
their political fortunes ahead of
November's midterm elections. Trump
warned that [music] if Democrats retake
control of Congress, he would be
impeached for a third time. The
president saying they'll find a reason
to [music] impeach me. Meanwhile,
tensions between the US and Greenland
ramping up again. President Trump won't
rule out the use of military force
[music] to acquire the Arctic Island as
the White House says the administration
is weighing a wide range of options.
Danish Denmark's prime minister warning
that any US attack on Greenland would
[music] spell the end of NATO. and
Warner Brothers Discovery saying an
amended takeover offer from Paramount
Skyance is inferior to the deal it
already has in place with Netflix. The
board of directors writing in a letter
to shareholders Paramount's offer
provides [music]
insufficient value and it doubts the
company can close the deal despite a
personal financial guarantee [music]
from billionaire Larry Allison. Dr. Bber
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, David Rubenstein joins us
of Carlile Group as President Donald
Trump is planning to meet with business
leaders later this week. And we'll get
you some of the [music] breaking news
coming out of the North Atlantic in just
a moment.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. A breaking situation this
morning. A developing news situation.
According to NBC News, US forces
securing a Russia flagged tanker linked
to Venezuela. The ship is currently
sailing between Iceland and Scotland
with Moscow saying it's monitoring the
situation with concern. Bloomberg Simon
Casey joins us now for more. Simon,
welcome to the program. What do we know
about this tanker? Is it a Russian
vessel or not?
>> It's a Russian linked vessel. I think we
can call it that. It's part of the
shadow fleet which is, you know, many of
you know it's it's part of this global
fleet of tankers that subject to
sanctions. Um, frequently they turn off
their transponders. They they sort of
literally try to fly under the radar.
And this was a tanker that was chased
away from the coast of Venezuela last
month by US ships when it was trying to
dock in Venezuela. As I say, it's a
sanctioned vessel.
President Trump in recent weeks has
implemented this blockade on Venezuela
to try to halt exports of oil from the
country uh via sanctioned tankers part
of putting pressure on the regime. This
was just before uh the seizure of Majuro
of course. So this this this tank has
been sort of chased across the Atlantic
essentially over the past few weeks and
uh things have reached ahead this
morning.
>> Simon, what do you think the
consequences are? I know it's very early
days and I know it's uh maybe a little
bit dangerous to go into the realm of
speculation, but as you sit here and
watch this play out, what do you think
the consequences could be from a
situation like this one?
>> Well, it's not the first tanker to be
seized, of course. Uh we had another
sanctioned tanker seized last month that
that tanker is was full of oil. This one
is empty, by the way. Uh that tanker
that's full of oil now sits off the
coast of Texas. Um, we expect that in
due course the US government will take
the legal steps necessary to take
ownership of that oil. In this case, the
tanker that's just been seized today,
it's empty. There are still questions
why that particular tanker, as I said,
there's this shadow fleet out there.
There are many tankers on the ocean. Um,
some still in the vicinity of Venezuela.
Why the interest in this one? We don't
know. Was there something aboard that
tanker? We can really only speculate at
this stage. In terms of further
ramifications, yeah, this has been quite
a spectacle. Um, we'll see what the
Russian response is in due course, but
it doesn't really help relations between
US and Russia at this stage. There may
be ramifications with the the efforts to
to engineer some sort of ceasefire in in
Ukraine. Um, so we'll see. It'd be very
interesting to see what happens in the
course of today. Simon, if the US
continues to go after the shadow fleets
almost around the world, what would that
do to the oil price?
>> Well, Venezuela is
it's a shadow of what it once was in
terms of an an oil producer. It produces
currently less than a million barrels a
day, probably substantially less than
that right now in a global market of
over 100 million barrels a day of
consumption. Uh, and we're in a glut at
the moment. The oil price has declined
quite a bit over the last 12 months. We
think prices could even head lower this
year regardless of what happens with
Venezuela. The world can live without
Venezuelan oil. Um so there's no sort of
significant mark market impact.
Certainly consumers are probably not
going to notice anything from this.
>> Secretary Wright right now is saying
that Venezuela can increase output by
700,000 barrels a day in the medium
term. What do you make of that? How
quickly could we see a ramp up? I
>> mean, I think that's a pretty bullish
assessment. Uh if you speak to people in
in in in the industry who know Venezuela
pretty well, we're we're currently at,
as I say, less than a million barrels a
day. Um its peak back in the 1970s was
over 3 million barrels. It also reached
close to that level in the '90s, but
since then the industry has gone there
in in Venezuela has gone undergone real
stresses, lack of investment, uh
corruption, uh disrepair, you name it.
There's there's a host of problems and
these are not going to be easy to fix.
There will be some short-term fixes that
if companies come in now right now,
spend a lot of money, maybe they can
bump production a bit. But I think to
you the significant kind of recovery,
which is what President Trump was
talking about on on Saturday when he
spoke from Mara Lago, that's years away.
>> Simon, thanks for making time for us.
Important conversation, developing story
as we speak. Bloomberg Simon Casey there
on the latest. Emory, the US turning up
the pressure. Absolutely. Turning up the
pressure. To Simon's point, there's a
lot of questions that we still need
answers to. Is there something
specifically about this tanker or is the
president president of the United States
just setting deterrence in these waters
that we do not care? These are
sanctioned fleets and we are going to go
after them and it comes on the heels,
you have to remember, of his truth
social post yesterday about how 30 to 50
million barrels of oil will be coming
now into the United States from
Venezuela.
>> What a start to 2026. Let's keep it on
this story and others, too. President
Donald Trump honing in on his
relationship with corporate America,
planning a meeting with insurance and
oil executives after a series of
meetings with tech leaders last year.
David Rubenstein, the Carile Group
co-founder and co-chairman and host of
the David Rubenstein show peer-to-peer
conversations joins us now for more.
David, good morning. Uh, congratulations
on the latest interview with Ray Dallio.
We'll get to that in just a moment. Lots
of things have taken place already in
26. You're a man with uh fingers and a
lot of pies. Can you talk to us about
how the stage is set for corporate
America in 26? Well, corporate America
has recognized that President Trump
likes to make major decisions that can
affect corporate America. So, I think
the CEOs of corporate America when
invited to the White House or to do
something with president are likely to
respond favorably to what he wants to
do. Now, obviously, some may not
politically agree with him, but
generally they recognize that he can
block a corporate deal. He can do things
on terms of regulations that other
presidents wouldn't do. So, I think he's
obvious obviously got the attention of
corporate America. So when they sit down
and have a conversation, they being the
oil executives with the United States
and the president of the United States,
does that have to factor into their
decision as to whether to deploy capital
in a place like Venezuela?
>> Well, I think they recognize that the
president is going to do certain things
that are going to help uh the oil
industry, I suspect, and he has said
that publicly. So I think they recognize
that when he says he's going to do
something that's going to affect them,
he's likely to do it. And so many of
them are fairly responsive to him. uh
they recognize that he's different than
most presidents of the United States who
don't usually get that deeply involved
in corporate mergers and acquisitions,
but this president is different.
>> We've also talked about the idea of a
sovereign investment fund or something
like that, and you've seen equity
investments on the part of the US
government in a number of different
companies. Based in your conversations
with chief executives, is this something
that's welcomed? Is this something
that's even uh solicited?
>> It's not a major subject of
conversation. remember uh we have a
budget that is so gigantic that it's not
going to be affected and corporate
America is not going to be affected by a
sovereign wealth fund all that much
because it's not going to be that big.
Uh right now uh we have a annual deficit
of about uh $2 trillion overall
corporate in overall indebtedness about
38 trillion and we're not going to have
a sovereign wealth fund. It's going to
be big enough to impact uh that and
it'll take a while for the the results
of investments by a sovereign wealth
fund to have any real impact on the
federal deficit in my view. But I think
there should be a sovereign wealth fund.
We've had one for years. It's called the
printing press. Um, basically by
printing dollars, because we're the only
reserve currency, we've had a sovereign
wealth fund and it's been enabled us to
kind of do things we wouldn't otherwise
be able to do because we're printing $2
trillion every year of of money that
we're spending that we don't really
have. So, we've had one, it's just not
in the same form as the president's now
talking about. You have these wonderful
conversations with leaders in markets
and companies and the latest Ray Dalio
has been pretty vocal about how the era
of Americana is coming to an end in some
way or another and how there is this
trajectory as the head of a company as
someone who talks with corporate
executives. Do you get the sense that
they feel that when they talk
internationally with their peers? Well,
remember for such a long time since
World War II ended, we've been the only
reserve currency in the world and we
pretty much dominated the global
economy. We have about what 5% of the
world's population and we're about 18%
of the world's GDP. So, we're
disproportionate in our influence. And I
think it's very difficult for people to
stay step back and say all of a sudden
the world's going to change. It happens
more gradually. But people recognize
that we're not going to be the only
reserve currency forever. And we
recognize we can't keep running up these
deficits forever. And so I think
corporate America is probably expecting
some changes to occur, but I think a lot
of people are waiting to see what
happens in the midterm elections which
are going to happen this year. Uh the
president himself has said that uh he's
very upset if the Democrats were to win
the control of the house because he said
yesterday that they might try to impeach
him. So a lot of people are going to
look at the mid midterms and see what
happens there. But right now I would say
the economy in the United States is in
reasonable shape. uh given leaving aside
the deficit issue, unemployment numbers
are tolerable, inflation is tolerable.
Uh if there are going to be big
problems, we don't know exactly what
they're going to be. Uh geopolitical
events are probably more likely to
impact the economy than anything that
we're going to do ourselves. So what
could happen with the Russia Ukraine
war, what could happen in Iran, what
could happen in China, Taiwan are more
likely to affect the economy and the
markets than anything we're going to be
able to do by ourselves.
>> How much is geopolitics weighing on
corporate America right now? How much is
this the conversation in boardrooms?
>> There's no CEO doesn't have a
geopolitical adviser these days because
everybody recognizes that geopolitical
events can affect them dramatically. For
example, if you're in the oil business,
look what's happened just recently. Um,
if you uh are in the agriculture
business, Ukraine has gone through a
major change and they were major
exporter of wheat. So, I think everybody
has a geopolitical adviser and
everybody's sensitive to it, but in the
end, you can't anticipate certain
geopolitical events. When you tend to
anticipate things that are going to
happen, they usually don't happen. And
when you don't anticipate them, that's
when they happen. So, it's very
difficult to think your geopolitical
advisor is going to make you uh much
richer or smarter because they really
don't know that much more than you know
yourself.
>> David, final question. How's LinkedIn
going? How's social media working out
for you?
>> Okay. So, um I would say uh no, no big
problems. I thought you were going to
ask me about uh uh Pete Alonzo.
>> You wanted to talk about baseball. Oh,
>> well, I thought last time we were
talking about the Orioles and so forth.
>> Well, I can fit in some baseball. I
just, you know, I'd seen the latest news
that Harvey had got you to join
LinkedIn.
>> Well, um, I I'm a technology last
adopter.
[laughter]
>> I I'm the same and I'm I'm really
reluctant to give up my Blackberry and
I'm probably the last person was using a
Blackberry. So, finally, they convinced
me to be on LinkedIn, but I don't think
LinkedIn is really um been dramatically
changed by my adopting uh participation
in it. But I I don't know. I haven't
really linked in anything yet, but maybe
I will.
>> I just got the message from someone
else, too, who just said talk baseball
with
>> Yeah. Are you Are you gonna make that
Are you gonna Are you Are you going to
get He's a free agent. Are you going for
the pitcher? Uh, we'll I can't talk
about that right now, but I [laughter]
would say you probably
uh I would say look, we we we spent uh I
think of all the teams in Major League
Baseball, the Orioles spent the second
most in the free agency period of time
since the season ended. So, we've put in
a fair amount of money and we've got
some really great new players coming to
on the team. Pete Alonzo is the most
famous of them, but we have a lot of
other good ones and I think we're in
pretty good shape.
You're also a TV professional as well
because you know the time is out. So
it's good to see you. Thank you sir.
Thank you very [laughter] much. I
appreciate it.
>> David Rubenstein there the Carlile
co-founder and co-chairman.